home | about | search | site map | blog ( an rma is not required but helps expedite things for you ) we will send you a ups return shipping label ( by email ) to affix to the package dropthe package at any ups location , see www.ups.com ( be sure to include a copy of your receipt and instructions for refund or exchange ) - if you don 't want to use our prepaid label , or you live outside the us you can mail the products back with the carrier of your choice does it cost anything to return an item for a refund ?
what if i want to use usps or another carrier ? - we try to process refunds on the same business day we receive the item ( s ) , but it might take a few days to appear in your account what if i used a freight forwarding service to ship my items internationally ?
we treat our customers with care and respect , the same way we want to be treated .
minus 33 merino wool midweight 1 / 4 zip top - womens we stand behind the products we sell 100 % . if for any reason you are not satisfied with your purchase simply return it for a full refund a week ’ s worth of stateline 's original reporting and analysis of key state issues .
delivered on mondays .
leh reels at minus 17.4 c as cold wave continues in kashmir leh reels at minus 17.4 c as cold wave continues in j & # 38 ; k is jayalalithaa using fishermen issue as a bait for votes ?
homehomehot topics ( 2 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnam a polar vortex has brought wind chills as cold as -53 & # 176 ; c to the us 12 : 28 7-jan-14 her majesty the queen celebrates the 60th anniversary of her coronationthis year - and she is working as hard as ever ! issues and politics of the race to county hall for 2013 and lawyers to overthrow centuries of tradition in order to curtail at km groupwe ’ re proud to pay tribute to the brave men looking for something to do at the weekend ?
had a big clear-out at home ?
car boot sale season is back !
click here to find your local event ... a great quarter , and a great year .
but what 's to come ?
the financial position of the u.s. is not just troubled ; it is artificially created to fool the people .
the lack of a new big thing slows growth of spending on consumer electronics .
4.its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock mourners receive dr mgimwa 's body , last respects at karimjee today na aisia rweyemamu padre luciano added that dr mgimwa was not afraid to stand for justice , and for that reason he was also not afraid to lose his life .
sitta said it ’ s a big gap to the government since most of the remaining leaders were working beyond the corruption .
for his part , the kigoma north mp said that dr. mgimwa was a good listener who took advice positively , and that ’ s why as the shadow minister for finance he had never been in conflict with the minister .
dr mgimwa died at the mediclinic kloof in pretoria on wednesday morning at the age of 63 .
he was admitted to the south african hospital for emergency treatment .
a career official with the national bank of commerce and the bank of tanzania , the late dr mgimwa was mp for kalenga constituency in iringa region .
he spent nearly a month in the hospital battling continuous failure of body organs .
are you interested in customizing a range of email alerts using advanced tools ?
if so , we suggest you use the inboxrobot .
copyright © and trademark ™ the silsbee bee 2012 all rights reserved copyright statement | privacy statement | terms of service staff email • webmaster • site map between the antarctic circumpolar trough and the continent , a narrow ring of easterly winds exists .
cold winds flowing off the continent are diverted to the west as a result of the coriolis effect .
conditions here are often calmer and clearer than in the antarctic circumpolar trough .
the drake passage is the stretch of water between the most southerly tip of south america and the most northerly tip of the antarctic peninsula .
it has been described as the roughest stretch of water in the world .
it is the place where not only are there gale force winds that blow most of the time , but also where the " circumpolar current " is squeezed through its narrowest gap .
" antarctica is the coldest , highest , windiest , driest , and iciest continent on earth " legislative delegation to solicit public ’ s thoughts at forum in wichita the new year is here and that means many americans will get a chance to go the doctor for the first time as the affordable care act is now in effect and millions of americans are now covered by health insurance .
using a mobile device ?
go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile .
if you have something to say ...
say it on the huffington post millennial progressives and libertarians will change politics in the future if millennials don 't have a progressive / libertarian presidential candidate to vote and volunteer for in 2016 , you can be sure we 'll run one of our own down the line .
is this just a further sign of the " moral decay " of american society , or can we say the legalization of marijuana can have a place in a christian theology that values , instead of denigrates , the body ?
today , the drug war is widely recognized as one of the country 's greatest failures ; the aca suggests a way out .
i 'm not one to use the term " tipping point " lightly , because one can only say you 've hit it so many times before losing one 's credibility , but i do think we 've hit the tipping point on marijuana legalization -- for three reasons .
2013 will go down in history as the beginning of the end of our disastrous war on drugs .
here are some of the top stories that made 2013 a watershed year in the fight to end america 's longest failed war .
how is it that our land , supposedly the beacon of freedom and democracy for the rest of the world , puts so many of its own people into prison ?
and why has the number climbed so drastically since 1980 ?
making alcohol illegal led to huge increases in organized crime , corruption , and violence .
for many of the reasons that led to its repeal , the same arguments can be made for why we need to end the war on drugs .
i support and applaud president obama 's treatment of turkeys .
but i have to ask the president : what about the treatment of the more than 100,000 people who are incarcerated in the federal system because of the war on drugs ?
if there was ever a small opening for the gop to win the hearts and minds of millennials , pot might be the golden ticket .
the only video of legal weed you need to see here 's how much it costs to buy weed in colorado now this is the first person in the world to buy legal weed in colorado governors , lawmakers return to capitols with an eye on november comments | print | report a typo | contact the editor by any third party are the responsibility of the author of that message and not in any way or verified the accuracy , completeness or usefulness of any message .
we encourage visitors to northernlife.ca to report any objectionable content by a new york city council candidate has filled a million-dollar law suit against her political rival , claiming her opponent put a caribbean hex on her in the form of a black-magic mural on her building .
recently air turks & caicos unveiled its new name-change to intercaribbean airways .
intercaribbean is now pleased to announce & # 8230 ; the kings arrive for the day of three kings organized by the puerto rican and latin american art and culture committee at euphoria lounge in new bedford on sunday .
the celebration is held around the & # 8230 ; he was reacting to arguments by various people that the proposed government structure was against the desire of the union ’ s founding fathers , the late presidents nyerere and abeid amani karume who created the two-tier government structure .
he pointed out that mwalimu for example accepted changes in the country ’ s political sphere after the nyalali commission had recommended a multiparty system .
did you know there are 17 species of penguins in antarctica ?
homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery where in the story does it say he ' butchered ' her , & # 8230 ; please note : prices are for 4 weeks .
you can design your own advert or we can design it for you .
send your orders by e-mail to this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more details retour sur la vie du premier président noir d 'afrique du sud , nelson mandela ils sont dans l ’ ombre qui s ’ éclaire .
et dans l ’ ombre qui s ’ épaissit .
nelson rohlihlala mandela n 'est plus .
a la suite d ’ une longue maladie , il a tiré sa révérence , le 5 décembre 2013 , entouré de l ’ affection des membres de sa famille .
au crépuscule de sa vie , mandela s ’ était retiré de la vie politique et vivait entouré des siens .
sa dernière apparition publique date de la coupe du monde de football 2010 qui a eu lieu en afrique du sud .
visiblement ému , jacob zuma , le président de l 'afrique du sud , son ancien compagnon de lutte qui avait également été incarcéré à robben island , a annoncé même si l 'on s ’ attendait à un décès plus ou moins imminent , cette nouvelle a provoqué une onde de choc dans le monde entier .
madiba , fait partie de notre mémoire collective maintenant , car nous avons suivi avec beaucoup d 'émotion les grandes étapes de sa biographie depuis son incarcération dans les geôles de robben island , en 1962 , en passant par sa libération , le 11 février 1990 , au prix nobel de la paix en 1993 jusqu ’ à son élection , le 26 avril 1994 , en tant que premier président de l ’ afrique du sud élu librement et démocratiquement par tous les sudafricains et les sudafricaines .
le monde entier avait salué cette élection qui a donné naissance à la nation arc-en-ciel .
durant son mandat , madiba a mis en place une commission " vérité et réconciliation & ldquo ; qui a permis d ’ extirper les racines de l ’ apartheid , ce racisme étatique établi depuis des une légende a rejoint au royaume des ombres , tous ceux qui ont lutté pour un idéal et qui étaient prêts à donner leur vie pour cet idéal .
madiba fait partie des héros qui aspiraient à un monde meilleur où seules règneraient la justice , l ’ égalité des chances et la liberté pour tous .
il est une référence et nous sert madiba , comme ses concitoyens l ’ appelaient , est un nom clanique et une formule de respect , e mpreinte d ’ affection .
tata signifie en khosa , sa langue maternelle & sbquo ; père & ldquo ; .
mandela a écrit en lettres d ’ or les plus belles pages de l ’ histoire contemporaine .
de son vivant , il est entré de plain-pied dans l ’ histoire .
sa vision d ’ un monde sans racisme a été son combat de toute une vie .
il en a payé le prix fort .
ses bourreaux l ’ ont incarcéré durant 27 ans au pénitencier de robben island .
cependant , son charisme et son autorité morale ont obligé le pouvoir d ’ alors à entamer des pourpalers avec lui jusqu ’ à sa libération .
le nom de nelson mandela restera gravé à jamais dans nos mémoires .
il a livré au monde un testament de paix , de pardon et d ’ amour du prochain qui touche le cœur nelson mandela a résumé son engagement de la façon suivante : & sbquo ; j ’ ai dédié ma vie à la lutte pour le peuple africain .
j ’ ai combattu la domination blanche et j ’ ai combattu la domination noire .
j ’ ai chéri l ’ idéal d ’ une société démocratique et libre dans laquelle tous vivraient ensemble dans l ’ harmonie , avec d ’ égales opportunités .
c ’ est un idéal que j ’ espère atteindre et pour lequel j ’ espère vivre .
mais , si besoin est , c ’ est un idéal pour lequel je mandela a eu le bonheur de voir son rêve se réaliser : celui de vivre dans sa une icône s ’ en est allée de l ’ autre bord rejoindre ses ancêtres .
paix à son âme !
nous pleurons aujourd ’ hui l ’ humaniste qui a redonné à l ’ afrique , et en nous pleurons le héros de la liberté qui a su réconcilier blancs et noirs en nous pleurons l ’ homme qui est le symbole de la lutte contre la discrimination raciale , de la recherche de la justice et de la paix et qui a été une source nous nous inclinons très respectueusement devant ce père de la nation sudafricaine , cet illustre fils de l ’ afrique qui a changé le cours de l ’ histoire dans son pays et ému tous les peuples du monde .
tout le monde le pleure a sa famille éplorée , à ses anciens compagnons de lutte , au peuple sudafricain et à lanc ( african national congress ) , nous présentons nos sincères condoléances .
message de condoleances adresse aux familles vicimes des recents massacres de gatumba et au peuple burundais .
declaration du cndd au sujet de la question des negociations rapport du projet mapping concernant les violations les plus graves des droits de l ’ homme et du droit international humanitaire commises entre mars 1993 et juin 2003 sur le territoire de la république démocratique du congo memorandum sur les irregularites et fraudes massives des elections communales du 24 mai 2010 declaration du parti cndd au sujet de la greve des enseignants du primaire et du secondaire anglais | données | images | archives | contactez-nous | rendez-vous you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds .
videosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photos from a performance by a storyteller to a lecture from a mission financial secretary and an organ ... - 8 : 53 pm gus malzahn , jimbo fisher in line for major bcs bonuses how cold is it ?
record-low temps hit large parts of the usa .
a timelapse of 11 hours of snow in 30 seconds rodman leads players to pyongyang for an exhibition game to mark the birthday of his friend kim jung un .
j.p. morgan to pay $ 2b for role in madoff case why jimbo fisher and gus malzahn call plays on and off field this mega tv is a stunner , but vizio did not announce pricing or availability .
ask the captain : why flying is the safest way to travel are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now .
log inare you currently a subscriber ?
set up your digital access now .
create an account or if you have a digital profile log in .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products the spectrum has to offer or you can download any of the following supported modern browsers : newslocal newsbusinessnation & worldnews galleriesstory archivemultimediavideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photosobituariesplace an obituarylifefeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopeseventssportsprep sportsoutdoorsgolfdixe state universitysouthern utah universityoutdoorshiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor galleriesopinionblogs he said this envisages the enhancement of tazara ’ s hauling capacity in an effort to boost the volume of goods and revenue in the second year of the strategic plan , in 2014 . & ldquo ; so far so good , in terms of capacity enhancement in the equipment arena .
with the invitation of the private sector in our operations , we now expect other areas , such as the railway infrastructure , to be serviced and maintained to appreciable levels in order to increase our efficiency to the satisfaction of our customers . & rdquo ; state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards saturday morning & the stalls are going up for the bangsaen bikeweek event from 2.30 pm many bikes rolled in so keep clicking on our pages to see it as it unfolded hey mc riders in the meantime if youre into buying one of our limited print edition sturgis by the way these pages are dedicated to all the foreign and thai mc clubs in thailand where one can " ride hard & live life to its fullest " if you are an mc in thailand send your banner & link to us .
more [ bang saen bike week page 3 ] more [ bang saen harleys for sale ] dec 6-7th 2008 chiangmai north comets bike week [ see pics ] december 13th formulate bike party sat chiangmai [ see pics ] vfrs & cbrs for parts ] [ new honda 125 waves , sonics ] [ new cbr honda 150cc ] [ honda bikes ] [ new cbr 2004 150cc ] [ thai & car t shirts ] [ kids mini racing bikes ] [ your own bike ] [ honda nsr 150cc ] [ vfr bikes ex china ] [ export crates ] [ new yamaha vehicles to thailand ] [ freight forwarding ] [ container cost ] [ sea freight ] [ air freight ] [ airlines in thailand ] [ back to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs monday jan 6 , 2014 six to start camp for ea junior tennis championship na joseph mchekadona kipingu said the foreign-based players are omari sulle and emmanuel mallya who will join from burundi and emmillian katabolo and georgina kaindoa who will join the camp from south africa .
still reeling from the death of the saintly matthew crawley and the stealthy departure of the scheming o 'brien ?
exultant over the rise ( and highly improved wardrobe ) of lady edith and the return of the dowager countess to her old spine-straightening ways ?
view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night .
explore fascinating spitsbergenaboard a luxury expedition ship on a voyage withspectacular wildlife , hiking , zodiac excursions and optional kayaking and snowshoeing.receive up to $ 1,500 in air credits per person .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel.receive free airfare ( value up to $ 1,700 per person ) . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedbetting on the house - barrons.com wedbush raised the price target on the avocado grower to $ 35 from $ 33 .
hilliard lyons downgraded the water- and fuel-pumping firm to neutral .
mkm cites ciena , finisar and f5 networks .
cisco may be on the outs .
sterne agee raised estimates on the bank for 2014 and 2015 .
the franco-dutch airline has cut costs and restructured in an effort to end years of losses .
emerging markets look to be on the mend , and the stocks are cheap .
but beware of political risks in the fragile five .
etf investors can look forward to an onslaught of more niche products , the downfall of " smart beta , " and bigger discrepancies in pricing .
each lesson is meant to show how color can be used on a map to illustrate “ my sense is that there is recognition among all student groups and faculty groups that , if we just go on the way we are now , given the fiscal environment , it ’ s not sustainable , ” duguid said .
“ we can no longer afford to have a system that is organically developing based on whatever preferences the institutions may have .
we can ’ t have duplication in the system , ” he said .
“ we believe such a system [ imposes ] a punitive hierarchy of “ winners ” and “ losers , ” ocufa stated .
comment on having a university degree is overrated dec 30 , 2 : 00 am comment on putting the lemon in lululemon dec 27 , 4 : 30 pm comment on having a university degree is overrated dec 27 , 1 : 38 pm comment on parking on campus is exorbitant dec 22 , 10 : 33 pm the vitol trading giant ’ s acquisition of a stake of slightly over 9 % at a cost of cad 10 million in cic energy at the end of march looks likely to give the company the push it needs . ( ... )
sasol had to ditch its plan to explore for shale gas in south africa but has launched itself into exploring for coal gas in botswana . ( ... )
how are states using employees ’ and job candidates ’ social media accounts in employment decisions ?
what happens if a state agency or public official ’ s identity or username is stolen ?
ever wanted to tour the new hampshire state house ?
rather stroll through the colorado governor 's mansion ?
perhaps you wouldn 't be happy until you hear the cry of a loon as it glides over minnesota 's lakes region ?
or maybe you 're considering making a movie in mississippi and would like to investigate the area and its resources ?
all this is possible with just a few mouse clicks thanks to the magic of the internet .
the wendel investment firm ’ s acquisition of a € 100 million stake in morocco ’ s saham group on nov .
29 appears to be only a starter . ( ... )
now that the everyday business of the office cherifien des phosphates ( ocp ) is handled by a team of senior executives , the company ’ s boss , mostafa terrab , is free to devote more time ( ... )
rabat is keeping a close eye on how the talsint affair is playing out in a federal court in austin , texas ( mc 1082 ) . ( ... )
morocco ’ s brand new energy and mines minister , fouad douiri , is one of the rare ( ... )
no comments on this topic yet .
be the first one to submit a comment. provide .
if the address is not valid or you don 't click on the validation preliminary report of the electoral observation mission of the oas in honduras oas co-organizes colloquium on regulation of political parties and financing in antigua- barbuda montserrat presents on use of ict in disaster management at un eclac workshop tragic start to the new year in trinidad and bahamas letter : was the flooding of buccament an act of god or a recurring act of nature ?
letter : hon sen ray roberts and hon sen nazim burke : grenada 's persons of the year the businessman from somaliland djama omar saïd , who was arrested in djibouti for “ cigarette smuggling ” on 4 november and then released a few days later on the 10th of november ( > loi ( ... )
the legal proceedings by the djibouti government to confiscate the assets of abdourahman mahamoud boreh have gone all the way round the world . ( ... )
there is no end in sight to the chase between president ismail omar guelleh and his former friend now dissident and rival abdourahman mahamoud boreh . ( ... )
the businessman abdourahman boreh is in court in dubai , at the request of the djibouti authorities . ( ... )
zahra guedi , the niece of udjchairman ismaël guedi hared , who is one of the leaders ( ... )
the franco-algerian lotfi otmani has just replaced the mauritanian ould amar yahya ( ... )
thought of the day : for most of us , the issue is not between the " good " and the " bad , " but between the " good " and the " best . "
so often , the enemy of the best is the good . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 7 : 24 : 40 pm ) costa del sol newscosta blanca newsaxarquia - malaga east newscosta del almeria newsmallorca newsproperties in spain costa del solcosta blanca northcosta blanca southaxarquiacosta de almeriamallorcaspanish newsgibraltar leapy leepeter fieldmannora johnsonfia tarrantvicki mcleodmike walshstephen amoretony matthewsdavid danceycharities cornerric polanskyguest columnistbenny davistraveljim collinsnorman macleodcollin hallcraig irelandchris marshallsuzanne mannersulrica marshalljack gaionilaura pennjane plunkettdavid searlrichard shanleynick snellingclodagh and dick handscombeana jefferson-smithcassandra nashsally trotman film reviewrestaurantslifestyle ewn technologyshoppingbusiness ewnbook reviewhealth and beautyconnie 's pet cornerpets your letterstestimonialsjust fancy that ! gardeningdavid the dogmanpuzzles and gamesvideo newsadvertising featuremotoringmaddocks ' view on lifestreet talk costa blanca northcosta blanca southcosta del solcosta de almeriaaxarquia - malaga eastmallorca the results from almeria will not have any effect on the services offered to passengers nor the operations carried out at the airport , as aena operates on a national scale , based on the income from all airports .
scott wrote , " amputation is the least i can hope for " and , " we shall stick it out until the end but we are getting weaker , of course , and the end cannot be far . "
in reality , that was two decades ago , and as i sit here on the precipice of turning 40 , i feel the duality of wondering where the time went and marveling at how much has changed since that birthday .
two decades later , my former roommates and i are spread across the country .
we have families of our own and jobs that require commitment .
these days , we spend our saturdays at youth hockey games , swimming lessons and matinees , and we load the dishwasher on our way out the door .
we have a lot to juggle and a lot to think about ; some days we actually manage to get through it all .
37 .
skip the gym and go for a walk outside .
and one to grow on : understand that the best is yet to come .
commentary : the us war on communism , drugs , and terrorism in colombia the 17 lawmakers from the opposition uprona party and three cndd-fdd .
nobody can bet on his independence because he will be judge and jury , " the position of ombudsman was a provision of the 2000 it had not previously been filled due to the lack of the the ombudsman is meant to play a key role in crisis resolution and can also arbitrate corruption and rights cases if the judiciary by insecurity which the government blames on " armed bandits " who emerged after a home page | news | business | arts | sports | insight | portrait | editorials | upcoming events | web exclusives kyrgyzstan ’ s southern capital , the city of osh , is known for its national cuisine and cooks .
only in osh one would eat the world-renowned baked samsa , pilaf , lagman and a variety of shish kabobs and mantys .
while the locals are , of course , well aware of the local foods , tourists find osh ’ s “ sweet spots ” in its cafes and restaurants .
shahid tepa is a heavily uzbek-populated neighborhood in osh .
owners of two local cafes decided to diversity their menus and add “ western flavor ” to their traditional pilaf and shish kabob .
new place , old problems : no water or electricity .
glimpsing at life of resettles in osh ( images ) kyrgyzstan 's osh mayor myrzakmatov : the city savior and man of year ?
is melis myrzakmatov really such a significant personality for southern kyrgyzstan ?
is he really who he says he is ?
we talked to a native resident of osh , who wished to remain anonymous , about this .
he says myrzakmatov is only pulling wool on people ’ s eyes and cares about his own personal benefit alone .
“ this is just another pr stunt .
he has donned the crown of a restorer and is now walking around with it .
it is sad to know that our mayor is just a conspicuous individual , and journalists are supporting that , ” n. says .
kyrgyzstan : a nazi and a drug lord in charge of police in osh ?
a murder in kyrgyzstan .
is a prominent human rights activist also a cop killer ?
the night before he was stabbed and burned to death , a small-town cop named maktybek suleimanov brushed off his wife 's pleas that he stay home and sit out the commotion on the streets .
suleimanov had wanted to be a policeman ever since he was a kid growing up in this turbulent corner of central asia .
he 'd ask his mother to pin strips of fabric to his t-shirt so they 'd resemble rank insignia .
sometimes he 'd go so sleep that way .
now suleimanov was 41 years old , had four kids of his own , and wore real shoulder straps of a police captain .
a broad-faced ethnic kyrgyz with a buzz-cut and a thin mustache , suleimanov was a gregarious man who liked to sing at family gatherings .
he had been a cop for 20 years .
war in the south of kyrgyzstan : present for bakiev or osh , stop !
the residents of chek village in the border area are asking to relocate them to kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : ombudsman tursunbai bakir uulu condemns tashkent for alisher saipov 's assassination osh governor visited the family of assassinated journalist alisher saipov where uzbekistan is heading or comments on the state of affairs in ferghana kishlaks transfer of the capital from bishkek to osh suggested again the son of andijan ex-governor detained in russia and turned over to the uzbek authorities russian broadcasts are resumed in the andijan region of uzbekistan uzbekistan : ex-hokim of the andijan region blamed for the events of may 13 , 2005 uzbek women account for one third of all hookers in the kyrgyz city of osh everybody is picking cotton in the namangan region of uzbekistan the son of the ferghana regional prosecutor decapitated secretary of the andizhan governor à l 'arrivée des vacances de noël , cindi leive , mika brzezinski et moi-même avons décidé qu 'il était grand temps de débrancher , pour nous recharger et nous renouveler juste avant la nouvelle année .
et quel meilleur moyen pour cela que de nous débarrasser de tous nos gadgets numériques ?
le chant des sirènes ...
die feiertage stehen vor der tür , und cindi leive , mika brzezinski und ich sind der meinung , dass jetzt die beste zeit ist , um abzuschalten , unsere akkus wieder aufzuladen und uns auf das neue jahr vorzubereiten .
das können wir am besten tun , indem wir bei all unseren geräten einfach den stecker ...
with the holidays almost here , cindi leive , mika brzezinski and i have decided that there is no better time to unplug , recharge and renew ourselves in time for the new year .
and what better way to do that than by unplugging and disconnecting from all our devices ?
the siren call ...
así comentamos ahora : os presentamos las conversaciones de el huffpost a place at the table : introducing huffpost food for thought come migliorare immediatamente la propria vita ( un indizio : si comincia migliorando la vita degli altri ) el tercer parámetro en otros países : la redefinición del éxito se globaliza il terzo parametro varca i confini : la ridefinizione del successo diventa globale les " frappes signatures " et le discours creux d 'obama sur les drones les « frappes signatures » et le discours creux d 'obama sur les drones los " ataques distintivos " y la retórica vacía de obama sobre los ' drones ' i " signature strike " e la vuota retorica del presidente sui droni sterne agee says the buy of korea 's t-mon is a foothold for the future .
3.its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock 2.its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock the country ’ s reputation on environment investment is not good so the government needs to involve the private sector in the implementation of development projects and activities , he said .
appointing 201 members for the constituent assembly is in progress and should be finalized by end of the third week of january , he stated .
according to the minister , the building and the machines are valued at 4.2bn / - & ldquo ; however , this is mainly on paper and there is little effort to implement the law by the tanzanian government . & rdquo ; mwita nyasibora , the secretary of the butimbaru clan noted : & ldquo ; in the past , everything was being cut but it is not the case at the moment , only a small inch is removed . & rdquo ; this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
find out more here .
by lauren r. rublina change appears to be under way in the markets .
our experts explain the risks , and highlight the opportunities .
she said death penalty was still retained in the draft document as in the act no.15 prerogative of mercy gives the president power to grant a pardon to any person convicted by a court .
bicester food bank toy parcels and lloyds bank donation .
janet ray , left and ann beveridge of the food bank.131219m-a196 the support and nurture of healthy , vibrant parishes is paramount to our efforts .
it is important to have a vision of what we want in parish life .
all proposals for the future will be faithful to the teachings of the catholic church .
each parish in one way or another is to have a pastor assigned to it who is responsible for the pastoral care of that parish .
( canon law 517 ) every effort should be made to provide opportunities for all members of the parish to be aware of and involved in the planning process .
olula del rio council is offering residents a new way to enjoy this holiday season .
all budding torvill and deans have the chance to practice their skating on an ecological ice rink .
however , the records confirm a warmer mediterranean area , especially in the month of october , and the recording of low rainfall has left a “ pretty dry ” season .
the recent demolition of two of the four houses in las terreras , cantoria , continues to have repercussions in the world 's media .
les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des armes les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , les groupes armés ont imposé une nouvelle loi aux familles des villages qu ’ ils contrôlent : chacune d ’ entre elles devra acheter une arme à feu auprès du groupe armé local , ce ne sont pas les armes qui manquaient déjà dans le masisi .
maintenant , et d ’ après de nombreuses personnes qui y ont fui la violence , posséder une arme à feu est devenu pratiquement une obligation dans certains des villages de ce ces personnes déplacées , qui appartiennent à différentes ethnies de la région , vivent dans un camp au village de shasha , non loin du masisi .
le soi-disant selon m. bonane , ceux qui essaient de retourner à leurs villages , pour s ’ occuper de leurs champs , se voient dire par les groupes armés qu ’ ils doivent acheter des armes à feu .
et une dizaine de ses compagnons , dont nyirumba vuleta , le m. vuleta affirme avoir été harcelé quand il est retourné à son village .
les hommes armés qui contrôlent le secteur lui ont dit que , puisqu ’ il a un champ , il doit avoir un fusil , et s ’ il n ’ en achète pas un , il devra partir .
mais ce n ’ est pas tout , explique m. bonane , il y a une troisième option : travailler comme un esclave .
selon lui , on force les villageois à acheter des fusils pour qu ’ ils puissent défendre leurs villages en cas d ’ attaque .
ceux qui ne se plient pas à cette décision sont obligés de travailler , sans paie , comme gardiens .
et si les désaccords avec le groupe armé local persistent , ils cette nouvelle loi sur les achats d ’ armes a été imposée en mai dans les territoires de masisi et de walikalé par les milices nyatura et raia mutomboki .
selon lui , des politiciens et certains officiers de l ’ armée fournissent ces armes , mais il a – comme beaucoup d ’ autres – refusé de s ’ armer , pour éviter parmi les politiciens identifiés par adolphe bonane : jean-bosco sebishimbo , un a la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco , une source dit qu ’ une équipe se rendra au camp de shasha pour enquêter sur ces allégations .
what is the primary reason you are reporting this message as abusive ?
newspaperssubscribeashley tribuneemmons county recordnapoleon homesteadprairie pioneersteele ozone & kidder county presswishek staradvertisingpublic noticesonline advertisingratesclassifiedsyour advertising needscommunitiesashleynapoleonwishekreal estatehome a tortured libyan man 's bid to sue the british government for allegedly colluding in his rendition cannot be settled in a uk court , the high court rules . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 6 : 21 : 20 am ) audit bureau affirms necessity of interrogating and punishing the offenders , undersecretary said in the article , published in latest edition of the new york : kemunculan tahun 2014 menyaksikan lima anggota tidak tetap baharu menduduki kerusi majlis keselamatan pertubuhan bangsa bersatu ( unsc ) , manakala malaysia pula memperhebat lobinya untuk menganggotai badan berpengaruh itu pada 2015.lima anggota baharu yang akan menduduki kerusi berkenaan bagi penggal dua tahun ialah chad , chile , jordan , lithuania dan nigeria , untuk mengambil alih tempat ... ( 1 / 5 / 2014 11 : 08 : 45 am ) malaysia salah langkah di bawah pentadbiran najib , kata kit siang malaysia telah melalui arah yang salah selama di bawah pentadbiran perdana menteri datuk seri najib razak , kata dap .
ketua parlimen dap lim kit siang ( gambar ) menegaskan , perdana menteri itu perlu memanggil mesyuarat kabinet bagi meluluskan penyelesaian 10 perkara termasuk perbincangan antara barisan nasional ( bn ) dan pakatan rakyat ( pr ) ... ( 1 / 5 / 2014 1 : 08 : 37 am ) group wants to repeal navajo ban on same-sex marriagekrwgnavajo nation ban on gay marriage at issueabq journalsee all 18 sourcesrelated navajo nation all you can eat buffet which is good . you are paying for convenience at this hotel . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedroad maps for thailand road maps .
road maps .
map of petchaburi , nakhon sawan highways , khon kean , ] [ kampaeng phet map , nakhon sawan map , chaiyaphun map , pichet map , uthai thani map ] [ phrae map , uttradit map , loei map , lampang map ] [ nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map ] [ kalasin map , roi et map , udon ratchatani map , mukdahan map , cambodian map ] [ nakhon ratchasim map , buri ram map , udon ratchatani map , surin map , kalasin map , surin map , aranyaprathet map , cambodian lower border map ] [ northern thai map , chiangmai map , mae hong son map , chiangrai map , mae sai map ] [ nakhon sawn map , chai nat map , suphan buri map ] tripoli ’ s quest to track down billions of petro dollars squirreled away across the globe by muammar gaddafi and his cronies has led to clashes between clans in the new administration .
for instance , a battle is shaping up in these first days of 2014 to replace abdalla kablan who stepped down in mid-december as boss of the tracing and assets recovery support bureau ( tarsb ) after an attempt to abduct him in tripoli . ( ... )
copyright : material published in the intermountain commercial record , inc. online and in the foreclosure and notice of defaults reports is abstracted , compiled nad formatted at substantial expense for the sole and exclusive use of the subscriber and may not be copied republished or resold in any manner in whole or in part without the written consent in writing of the intermountain commercial record , inc ’ s publisher . any infringement will be subject to legal redress limited warranty / indemnity / limited liability : except for the express warranties stated herein , the intermountain commercial record , inc. disclaims all warranties including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose .
you understand and agree that your use of this web site and of any services or content provided ( the " service " ) is at your own risk .
services and content are provided to you " as is " , and the intermountain commercial record , inc. expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind , either implied or express , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , and non-infringement . ( b ) you will not impersonate or misrepresent your association with any person or entity ; you will not forge or otherwise seek to conceal or misrepresent the origin of any content provided by you ; legislation underway for wildlife authority – govt na khalfan said he said twa will be independent in making decisions and managing day to day activities in game reserves including employment and remuneration to its staff .
copertura televisiva internazionale per il ' lunch match ' del 6 gennaio al san paolo anche napoli-sampdoria sarà seguita da milioni di spettatori . ( 1 / 3 / 2014 11 : 59 : 35 am ) epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyinternational cesnvidiarokuat & tverizon wirelessgooglecorning inc.sharp corporationviziotoshibaentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlighttechnologythe australian financial reviewsee realtime coveragelg dotes on appliances , unveils rash of tvs at ces 2014cnet14 minutes agowritten byjoan e. solsmanthe korean electronics maker lavishes time on its appliances , while it reveals its lifeband touch and a slew of new tvs and home entertainment items.lg shows off first smart tvs running webos softwarebbc newslg launches webos tvs , 4k streaming at cesthe australian financial reviewsee all 233 sourcesrelated : lg corp new roku tvs could shake up the living roomforbes - by david thierces 2014 : roku introduces 32 to 55-inch hdtvsdailytechin depth : apple tv vs. roku 3 : the great debate , revisedhouston chronicle ( blog ) - by dwight silvermansee all 176 sourcesrelated roku sharp 's new hdtvs get even sharper with more subpixelswiredsharp bridges gap between hd and ultra hd tv setsactionnewsjax.comsee all 33 sourcesrelated sharp corporation the droid guysee realtime coverageat & t 's asus padfone x phone-plus-tablet packs in volte , android 4.4cnet9 minutes agowritten byjessica dolcourtlike the padfone 2013 that came before it , at & t 's padfone x runs a tablet experience off the smartphone 's innards .
( credit : asus ) .asus ' transforming padfone x is coming to the us on at & tthe vergeasus padfone x for at & t : a phone that powers a tabletgigaom - by kevin tofelin depth : asus padfone x to arrive in the u.s. exclusively from at & tmarketwatchsee all 13 sourcesrelated : asus work-life balance is definitely not balanceddennis mccaffertynew cms revamps and enhances content deliveryguest authorall systems are a go for mobility projectsdennis mccaffertyemployee engagement is on the upswingdennis mccaffertynine compelling predictions about innovationdennis mccaffertylearn morespotlight lorena recio was on her way home and was walking across a pedestrian crossing in a street in the capital when she was hit by a car .
the victim was struck on the thigh and suffered a cut on her forehead which required 17 stitches .
she had to be taken to hospital with three broken teeth.the mother of the victim said that the vehicle had no lights on , so her daughter did not have time to see the car and react .
customers from a nearby bar ran out to help the victim , but nobody managed to see the number plate of the car .
owing to the blow to the thigh suffered by the victim a headlight fell off the car and witnesses present believed it was a dark blue car , possibly a citroen c3 by the shape of broken headlight .
the family has requested the cooperation of citizens to find the owner of the vehicle , who rather than stop and help , fled the scene . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedsmalltownpapers - the lakelander , whitney texasfanshawe student union > interrobang > jobs if you are a fanshawe student , and want to work for the fanshawe student union , the first step is to fill out a work study application .
click adeeb khalid : to speak of “ islam ” as a homogenous phenomenon is analogous to speaking of “ christianity ” as a single whole people , accused for the affiliation to the “ nur ” religious movement , are convicted in uzbekistan moslems in kyrgyzstan celebrated kurban bairam on december 19 .
as it turns out , however , the authorities dispersed the celebration in osh and had 48 men detained .
initiators of the celebration claim that the faithful were manhandled by the police .
dilmurat hadji orozov : « extremists are the people who believe that they alone are correct and revile everything else » kyrgyzstan : osh authorities do not permit hizb-ut-takhrir activists to celebrate the hait turkmenistan : the amnestied mufti offered a job with the presidential council for religious affairs the new law on religion is not even adopted in tajikistan yet but supernumerary mosques are being liquidated court does not permit a moslem girl to wear hijab to the college uzbek authorities are using islam to promote « development of society and prosperity of the country » tashkent and astana : on the brink of a diplomatic scandal andijani governor banned the azan ( call for the moslem prayer ) mufty of kyrgyzstan proclaimed the late qorasuv imam a shakhid ban to wear kerchiefs to schools in southern kyrgyzstan embittered students \ ' parents and the local moslem community the son of the missing theologian abduvali-kori mirzayev was arrested in andijan mass arrests of moslems are under way in uzbekistan .
arrestees include a cafe owner and a tv producer the committee for religious affairs of the government of tajikistan drafted a law on religion только самая свежая информация тут по visiondrive vd 1500mg pakistan news headlines celeb tax woes diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota the high turnover of staff is a sure sign that all is not well in the senegalese president 's office . ( ... )
the managing director of teranga gold corp and the man in charge of its relations ( ... )
finance minister dr mgimwa dies in sa na correspondent david president jakaya kikwete has already sent a condolence message to the family of the deceased , friends , prime minister mizengo pinda and the entire nation . & ldquo ; personally , i visited him twice at the hospital where he was being treated and on the second visit his health was improving .
chadema has sent its condolences to president jakaya kikwete for losing one of his subordinates .
if you would like to contact us about a local touch with one of our telesales representatives by clicking here .
father james bissonette is the diocese ’ s vicar general .
he has expertise in canon law and experience as pastor of clustered parishes in marble / taconite and carlton / cromwell / wright .
liz hoefferle is a former director of religious education and a member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth. barrages of mortar shells in retaliation for the regime bombardment of the following approvals in the us and europe this month of a new drug to treat hepatitis c , activists are pushing for the medication to be made available in poor countries .
m-am gândit că ar fi interesant de citit un material legat de ceea ce înseamnă politica , mai mult într-o formă teoretică .
care sunt de fapt bazele pe care ar trebui să se deruleze actiunile politice , pentru că , dacă este vorba de practică , trebuie să recunoaştem că sunt mari diferenţe între aşteptări şi realitate .
datorită dezvoltării fără precedent a industriei farmaceutice şi a forţei sale economice , medicina actuală trece prea uşor peste valoarea terapeutică a alimentelor naturale , deşi însuşi hipocrat , părintele medicinii europene , spunea : & # 8220 ; hrana pe care o mănânci să-ţi fie medicament & # 8221 ; .
încă de la începutul anilor & # 8220 ; 80 , aşa cum recunosc şi organizaţia mondială a sănătaţii ...
sub patronajul american college of chest physicians ( accp ) şi societatea română de pneumologie ( srp ) la iaşi în perioada 20-22 mai 2010 va avea loc întâlnirea educaţională cu tema : “ actualităţi privind reabilitarea pulmonară şi ventilaţia mecanică la domiciliu ” , care va beneficia de prezenţa unor renumiţi specialişti străini ca speakeri şi participanţi .
printre organizatorii ...
în timp ce preocuparea româniei relativă la chestiuni extrateritoriale precum situaţia provinciilor kossovo şi transnistria , respectiv statusul militar autohton în irak , este extrem de manifestă , neglijarea ( volitivă sau doar aparentă ) a desfăşurătorului politic intrateritorial se dovedeşte similar de manifestă .
nejustificat de manifestă .
formarea unor grupuri regionale pe baza intereselor comune ale politicienilor din anumite zone ale româniei a devenit o modă în toate formaţiunile politice .
acest fenomen este extrem de vizibil în transilvania .
grupurile formale sau informale din interiorul partidelor urmăresc să conserve puterea unora dintre lideri sau să le ofere acestora forţă în negocierile cu conducerea centrală a ...
soluţia tot mai des vehiculată a salvării româniei din criză este promovarea turismului şi atragerea de investitori în domeniu .
în timp ce politicienii îşi bat capul pe la diverse simpozioane internaţionale , drumurile se fac praf , iar vechea structură pe care s-a clădit cândva turismul ajunge încet , dar sigur o ruină .
o serie de oameni de afaceri investesc în fotbal tocmai pentru a obţine vizibilitate .
cazurile ex-vicepremierului george copos şi cel al preşedintelui png , george becali , sunt cele mai notorii în acest sens .
la cluj însă lucrurile se petrec pe dos .
o serie de oameni de afaceri cu vizibilitate mare au ales să investească în fotbal ca să facă bani .
unii dintre ei au reuşit .
alţii s-au ...
lumea politică a clujului a fost zguduită de o serie de scandaluri legate de concesiuni ilegale de terenuri .
partidul cel mai puternic lovit a fost psd .
protipentada psd a beneficiat de atribuirea unor loturi generoase de teren în staţiunea beliş din munţii apuseni , la preţuri extrem de mici .
pe listele beneficiarilor concesiunii ...
când se vorbeşte despre târgu mureş , în general , oamenii se gândesc la un oraş cu aspect occidental şi multe femei frumoase .
când oamenii de afaceri vorbesc despre oraşul de pe mureş , se gândesc la lipsa de siguranţă a investiţiei lor din cauza întâmplărilor de acum 16 ani .
dacă se poate numi întâmplare acea ieşire aproape inumană a unora împotriva altora .
anul 2006 se anunţă cumplit pentru mai bine de 90 la sută din ţărani .
potrivit noului buget al ministerului agriculturii , nivelul subvenţiilor acordate agriculturii se reduce la 30 la sută , iar modalitatea de acordare a sprijinului de stat devine una extrem de ciudată .
practic , statul va subvenţiona modest doar viile , legumele şi livezile , plus câteva culturi care nu se mai cultivă de ...
“ in anii ’ 80 capitalismul a triumfat asupra comunismului .
in anii ’ 90 capitalismul a triumfat asupra democratiei si economiei de piata .
pentru aceea dintre noi care au crescut in ideea ca fundamentul democratiei si libertatii pietei este capitalismul , realizarea faptului ca sub capitalism democratia este vanduta celui care plateste mai mult de pe piata si ca piata este planificata de catre megacorporatii mai mari decat cele mai multe dintre state , a reprezentat o cruda trezire la realitate ...
scapat de sub controlul opiniei publice , capitalismul este boala democratiei si a economiei de piata . ”
emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday jan 6 , 2014 members of the central committee of chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) were yesterday racking their heads for a position on the membership of two former central committee members dr. kitila mkumbo and arusha ex-regional chairman samson mwigamba .
mwigamba was from the start likely to have greater problems facing the party central committee , as it took the side of those who publicly beat him up in arusha as he chaired a party meeting , something that was indicative of a disorderly situation and confidence of his assailants in the support they have in party leadership .
at the same time the move by the third and most important axed official , kigoma north mp zitto kabwe to place a court injunction on his being discussed by the central committee indicated that the balance of things was that they had reached a point of no return .
pontiff calls on italian diplomats to promote " culture of encounter " “ through your service , you are in a position to promote the culture of encounter . ”
these were the words of pope francis to the diplomatic staff of the italian republic and the italian embassy to the holy see in an audience today at the vatican . ( 12 / 20 / 2013 11 : 33 : 48 am ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthai business news and handy honts for expats and tourists " 29 tanin co ltd " .
we can now offer you services at very services .
we also have khun nida bangklok and pattaya law services. the voting electorates recently & the inconvenience caused by the rak thai " to woo candidates away from there respective parties .
to buy other party candidates is a disappointment for the jefferies downgrades the teen fashion retailer 's stock to hold and slashes its price target by 33 % .
not many movies play at westdale theatre , but the select few that do are almost always high calibre .
unfortunately , the way way back was an exception .
i saw the film this summer and was unimpressed by its clichéd coming-of-age story about a teenager vacationing with his family in a sleepy seaside town .
get involvedgo red wolves !
gearing up for the godaddy bowl - fox16.com and examples of the treatment of withholding tax and vat on payments of fees , took the view that the construction expense was a disallowable expense in the paid for the direct benefit of the land and houses in the permitted project. o deduct wear and tear and depreciation of such properties in accordance with if your accountant is not doing his / her job and you have problems with the revenue dept then ask us for advice .
this is free and we are used to dealing with them .
ask your accountant if they are experienced in the business they do for you and if in doubt ask us thailand .
if in doubt ask for their reg number . please note we cannot assist those expats who want fiancee visas to visit the usa , england etc .
all the may not include govt fees but please ask us .
changes may occur due to charges may change in the course of our work due to govt or law changes occurring to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping no parts or parts of this website may be copied , printed or circulated for trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an taipei , taiwan — a six-month old giant panda was unveiled to her adoring public in taiwan on monday , as long lines of children of all ages queued up at the taipei zoo to see the cub cavorting around her cage with an understandably protective mother . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 11 : 52 : 39 pm ) a six-month old giant panda was unveiled to her adoring public in taiwan on monday , as long lines of children of all ages queued up at the taipei zoo to see the cub cavorting around her cage with an understandably protective mother . ( 1 / 6 / 2014 12 : 15 : 49 am ) printingnewspaperswedding / engage formssubscribeventure marketingall papersbeulah beaconcenter republicanhazen starleader-newsmcclusky gazettemclean county independentmclean county journalmountrail county recordnorthern sentrynew town newsunderwood newsvelva area voiceadvertisinganniversariesbirthdaysclassified adsonline advertisingpublic noticesratessakakawea countrypumpin ' it upviking screen printscatalogkid scoopphone book newspapersbeulah beaconcenter republicanhazen starleader-newsmcclusky gazettemclean county independentmclean county journalmountrail county recordnew town newsnorthern sentryspecial sectionsunderwood newsvelva area voiceadvertisinganniversariesbirthdaysclassified adsonline advertisingpublic noticespumpin ' it upratescatalogsearchapparel privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
the news ticker , which is broadcasted through kuna ’ s internet website , is transferred to the subscriber ’ s website .
it includes the main headlines and the latest in news developments .
the monthly fee for the subscription is 50 kd as long as it is not less than three months .
the subscriber can choose one or both of the two categories : you may use these html tags and attributes : < a href = " " title = " " > < abbr title = " " > < acronym title = " " > < b > < blockquote cite = " " > < cite > < code > < del datetime = " " > < em > < i > < q cite = " " > < strike > < strong > calgary web design by media dog productionsbars , girls gogo , & fun and in pattaya many on our books at present .
pattaya is a haven for short time sex and theres fee to stay with you.-- costs without drinks = 1000 baht upwards .
try the butterfly bars or go to soi yadsak as this are pattayaland soi 2 which is predominantly owned by an american investor try the g spot bar with lots of girls right opposit the favoiurite drinking hole of bruce allport & english paul 's " jack & tars " which is my favourite and a good bunch of expats drinkers and regulars like english peter .
[ pattaya buffets ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya food places ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best seafood restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] & ldquo ; kilimo kwanza is good but it should be conducted sustainably in a manner that does not compromise the wild life , & rdquo ; she urged . & ldquo ; she added that unsustainable kilimo kwanza being conducted between mpanda kipengere and usangu valley is letting us down .
this situation is not healthy for our animals and our life altogether . & rdquo ; for his part , the former director of forestry and beekeeping division in the ministry of natural resources and tourism dr felician kilahama , said normally catchment areas , and forests are the ’ lungs ’ for the wellbeing of our nation something , which is not properly portrayed in various national policies and decision making machinery . & ldquo ; now it is an opportune time to request tanzanians to give priority to conservation of forests and wildlife resources for the wellbeing of the nation and sustainable economic growth , & rdquo ; he said .
this trend sounds a warning that the level of water use and the management of natural resources is unsustainable and could result in irreparable damage to the environment .
if that were to happen , neither the catchment area nor the river will be able to contribute to the general development of the area .
try another request or click here to search for all pages on © 2014 laurentian publishing 11 things you must know if you made a new year 's resolution to get fit not sure if you 're due for a day off ?
count up your overtraining red flags here .
you didn 't make the resolution to get fit for anyone but yourself ( at least we hope ) , so your workouts should be for you , too .
as much as you can , try to ignore the speed at which that woman is sprinting on the treadmill next to you , or how much weight that guy is loading onto the squat rack .
everyone has different goals and different backgrounds , and that 's okay ! < strong > the workout < / strong > : stretching perpendicularly to everyone else on the mats < strong > the mantra : < / strong > " mi casa es ... mi casa . " the couch potato < strong > the look : < / strong > zoned out on a treadmill in front of a tv or on an elliptical with a month 's worth of us weekly < strong > the workout : < / strong > you mean , the gym < em > isn 't < / em > just for socializing ?
collette walsh : gym-maniacs : health and fitness is not all about the ' burn ' if fishing was not discontinued .
canada has been worried about the overfishing geese on their annual migration , by imprinting the chicks on the aircraft. not seen in alaskan waters but the summer 's warmer-than-usual temperature a type of arctic sandpiper , has been dying off in " astounding numbers " as we eagerly wait to see how events unfold this year , we should all stand warned !
may each and all of us strive to make 2004 a truly happy and meaningful year ! ask us for small quantities under 1cbm .
all our terms are lof c or tt transfer before products to the uk & eu & usa have quotas which you must pay for before polyester etc & are levied per each on top of the quoted buying price .
we reserve the right to change quotations if shipping / government loads only in thailand .
let us do the work for you chillie bins & ice boxes , coolers with new designs just out july you have your own cgi bin form & all inquiries go back direct to you .
as websites for inquiries & how to start .
if you want us to source and quality control right to shipping your goods we handle everything as we now have our own [ types of ice boxes , chillie bins , coolers for hot and cold applications of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs del 27 de abril al 30 de mayo habrá jornada especial de vacunación la organización panamericana de la salud proclamó la última semana de abril como la semana de la vacunación en las américas y por lo general los países de la región se unen en un gran esfuerzo para fomentar actividades que promuevan la equidad y el acceso gratuito a la inmunización consumo de frutas y verduras ayuda a prevenir el asma alérgica para llegar a esta conclusión , científicos realizaron pruebas con ratones .
los animales que habían recibido una dieta con alto contenido en fibra desarrollaron una reacción alérgica significativamente menos fuerte , al ser expuestos a extractos de ácaros de polvo doméstico alto nivel de vitamina d en el embarazo incrementa masa muscular de bebés aunque se sabe poco sobre cómo afecta la variación de los niveles de la vitamina d en el embarazo , un nivel menor de lo recomendado se ha relacionado con una fuerza muscular reducida tanto en adultos como en niños 63,5 % de los créditos adicionales aprobados por la an en 2013 se dirigieron a la inversión social el diputado pedro carreño dijo que la bancada chavista , mayoría en el parlamento , siempre apoyó y estuvo a favor de las decisiones que benefician al pueblo ; mientras que la derecha continuamente le dio la espalda a las causas justas de la población más de 40 mil turistas han visitado el parque nacional canaima esta temporada " más de 40 mil personas han ingresado a la gran sabana , de los cuales 8.000 son provenientes de brasil .
asimismo , hemos registrado el ingreso de 4.350 vehículos " , apuntó andrés izarra en fuerte luapa , punto en el que convergen quienes ingresan a la región luego del éxito y reconocimiento internacional que ha tenido el proyecto canaima educativo , el proceso revolucionario creó dos modalidades de este programa educativo y tecnológico : canaima para bachillerato y para universitarios $ 550 mil millones ha destinado el gobierno al desarrollo social del país en 10 años el presidente maduro explicó que los recursos se han invertido en proyectos de educación , alimentación , salud , cultura y vivienda el alzamiento del 1º de enero de 1958 : una rebelión militar usurpada por los caudillos partidistas lunes con lloviznas aisladas en regiones central , andina , llanos occidentales y sur 46 % de los usuarios que viajaron a través del terminal la bandera retornaron este domingo contact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products htr media has to offer newsobituariesschoolsnationalrecordsdataminespecial sectionsarchiveopinionsubmit a lettersportswisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livepackersgameday live ! submit a sports photovideosvideo librarybusinessliving here 2012 / 2013photosvideophoto galleriesorder photo reprintsshare photoslife & stylemilestonesmy cozi calendarday trip videos2013 menu guidemovieshealthentertainment2013 menu guidemy cozi calendarcalendar events helpcontact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us share information through reliefweb to better inform humanitarians worldwide . kuna : : الكويت فى ذاكرة الأيام إصدار خاص لوكالة الأنباء الكويتية / كونا / بمناسبة مرور 50 عاما على الاستقلال و 20 عاما على تحرير الكويت و خمسة أعوام على تولى حضرة صاحب السمو أمير البلاد مقاليد الحكم . يستعرض هذا الكتاب الذي قام بإعداده مركز المعلومات و الأبحاث مسيرة الكويت و سجلها التاريخي و هو ثمرة جهد متواصل منذ حوالى عشر سنوات عندما بدأت الوكالة فى اكتوبر / 2001 برصد و تغطيه و بث أهم الأحداث التي شهدتها دولة الكويت يوميا . و على الراغبين بالحصول على الإصدار يرجى التكرم بزيارة مقر وكالة الأنباء الكويتية / كونا / الشويخ – الدور الأرضي – قسم الخدمات و لمزيد من الاستفسار يرجى الاتصال على رقم – 22271800 داخلى ( 1930 – 1002 ) almeria news english newspaper - euro weekly news spain the recent demolition of two of the four houses in las terreras , cantoria , continues to have repercussions in the world 's media .
this week spanish magazine interviu has published an article entitled " el infierno estaba en el paraíso " ( hell was in paradise ) and a story has appeared on the bbc news . & # 8230 ; tickets go on sale friday , october 4 at 10am at all ticketmaster outlets and the centurylink center box office .
for a foreigner take a thai with you but check if nice paint the car hasn 't been filled with plastibond .
if new grill etc check for signs of a repaint .
even ask to put thru a test at b = quik or auto care if you think the underneath needs new ball joints etc. and always check for leaks and if the oil has been changed .
make sure the reg book shows both the numbers for chassis and engine and are correct .
paint jobs are cheap in thailand as are body work .
make sure battery not too old but batteries too are cheap 1000 baht upwards and look at the clutch fluid etc heights .
if low then check underneath the car for tell tale signs or leaks .
if you have a mechanic friend to go over with you even better .
just remember cars are dear in thailand and theres many to choose from so always ask for a discount. make sure the spare tyre is ok and you have jack and wheel , brace .
you can even buy a thai car mag in any bookshop so then you get a feeling for the price you want to pay for .
have change of ownership form with you and power of attorney so your thai friend can do the change over .
basically if biying used cars take to b quik or auto care as these guys go over every car with a report .
parts for popular cars are cheap. eg isuzu pickups are the best unless you want a vigo but 3 lutre vigos are juicy on the gas .
parts for isuzuis are really cheap and the gold top motor is the best motor if looking at pickups .
watch out when you hire a motorcycle in pattaya as the old scams of renting you a bike then stealing it back off you .
only hire from a hotel you are staying at or reputable hirage place and carry your own chain or lock if you have not gota good lockup .
if stolen they will want the equivalent of what the bike is worth so be careful .
this is an old scam thats back in vogue again and some police are even involved as in may 2009 a policeman from lumpini branch was arrested stealing bikes as his income was too low.also many books or reg tabians have been copied so be careful buying bikes , take our advice and use auto care or b quik garages as these are the best in thailand .
[ more help on buying and car repairs in thailand ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ visa costs ] [ visa checkpoint emails ] xtra cab ] [ cars ] [ our shipping services ] [ shipping info ] [ uk freight clearance agent ] bangkok highways and expressways : [ bangna highway ] [ pattaya highway7 to nakhon nayok ] [ overhead highwayto bangna ] go to [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres r1 : used no recap ] [ truck & bus tyres : shipping ] [ truck & bus cost & sizes ] more [ charcoal pics ] [ charcoal grades , sizes ] [ charcoal grade 2 , sizes ] [ charcoal shipping ] products ] [ new condos chiangmai ] place your banner on our website & get more hits add your banner to our website : of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs eating out and take away 's in kent prosecutor raps reinstatement of aggie star shaw sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 27 am est campus notes for jan 6 mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 27 am est utahns rank low for getting mammograms sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 27 am est utahs rank low for getting mammograms sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 27 am est phishing scammers disguising themselves as verizon technical support mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 27 am est lgbt expo hopes to be a resource for couples fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 27 pm est fundraiser set to help xander ’ s family fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 27 pm est intruder accused of stabbing dogs in home fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 27 pm est the mayor with the amazing mustache moves on sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 27 pm est concerts showcase top students ’ talents sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 27 am est bransonfest planned for february in mesquite sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 27 am est flu arrives in southern utah sat jan 4 , 2014 07 : 27 am est as a cheapskate with an enormous appetite , maximizing value in such matters was critical .
i picked up a job with sun media corp. and did a little freelancing on the side , but the income was not enough to keep up with steadily growing family expenses .
however , i did not get past # 23 on the list because i had too much work on my plate from the top companies .
" on this program we are dedicated to advocating for a wide diversity of families .
it is one of our core principles and i am reminded when we do so , it must be with the utmost respect .
we 're genuinely appreciative of everyone who offered serious criticisms of last sunday 's program , and i am reminded that our fiercest critics can sometimes be our best teachers . "
correction : melissa harris-perry said that she is " genuinely " — not " generally " — appreciative of people 's criticism of last sunday 's show .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . meet the reclusive billionaire behind the beanie baby these are just a few of the details about ty warner , the billionaire creator of the beanie baby , revealed in a document filed last week by warner ’ s lawyers aimed at reducing his sentence for tax evasion .
in 1985 , warner launched ty inc. out of his condominium in illinois and in the early 1990s , he invented the beanie baby .
the toy was designed to be easy for kids to carry around and buy with their own money , the document states .
from exuberant mud festivals to a solitary life in a welsh wooden ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnam score !
get ready for the big game by checking our playbook - a special nfl playoff and super bowl list ! law service " .
we offer foreigners and expats that little bit we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money. lawyers for overseas compnaies wishing to set up in thailand .
our speaking so you understand what is needed to retain a good accountant .
please email us or go to costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms ] [ hedge funds ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] on 4 dec 2013 , the former mayor of the kyrgyz capital , isa omurkulov , “ voluntarily resigned ” from his post ; his counterpart in osh was dismissed from post the very next day .
the two events stirred a lot of emotions in the two largest kyrgyz cities .
elections for the vacant positions are scheduled for january 2014 .
the issue of just who will preside in the osh city hall is not only a pressing one for osh resident , but it is also a sensitive one for the central authorities in this mountainous country .
obviously , bishkek wants to have “ a reliable handyman ” in osh , not a rebel — an unconditionally complying official , in short .
however , one could perhaps be sure that opposition-minded melisbek myrzakmatov will recapture his former chair and will be a new , yet old head of the city .
uzbekistan : thinking out loud about gulnara karimova as her father ’ s “ victim ” birdamlik opposition movement allocates $ 16k to initiate “ velvet revolution ” in uzbekistan bakhodir choriyev : my father ’ s case is testimony to legal nihilism and injustice in uzbekistan merciless uzbekistan : new law on registration throws orphans out to street lawyer nurbek toktakunov : kyrgyz ombudsman ’ s power is in lack of authority what freedom ? !
posing the “ uzbek question ” to the osce representative for mass media fazliddin kurbanov ’ s case , or how president islam karimov ’ s opponents are persecuted in the usa uzbek president : “ it is impossible to encircle the internet with an iron fence or ban it ” “ the state , it is i ” or an unsuccessful bid to meet gulnara karimova “ the ministry of truth ” of uzbekistan : art of lying through teeth gulnara karimova and film : gerard depardieu as the latest whim of the uzbek princess letter to azimjan askarov , or new york will wait for the laureate obidhon nazarov , imam shot in sweden , is recovering and uzbeks leave stromsund maksim bakiyev tracked not only in bishkek , but also in the states ?
dumb slaves , or cotton under the barrel of a gun dance of devils – a new novel by hamid ismailov kyrgyzstan : azimzhan askarov ’ s lawyers insist on review of his case uzbekistan : old russian woman to go to jail for a pack of pills uzbekistan : rustam usmanov ’ s son applies to the president of uzbekistan for a pardon uzbekistan : jamshid mukhtorov arrested in the usa and a former police officer from uzbekistan used to be friends uzbekistan : what ’ s the use of “ corn labyrinths ” for tourism development ?
" in kyrgyzstan , corruption is not a problem for the state , it is the state " presidential election in kyrgyzstan to contribute to regionalism and set the grounds for future opposition high up on a tightrope … and only sky is above new year , new ceos : breaking the news is neither the beginning nor the end it 's 2014 .
how are you going to show up differently ?
ub , nu grads rise to partner at chiampou travis besaw firm fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 21 pm est ub , nu grads rise to partner at chiampou besaw travis firm fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 21 pm est lewiston apartment project up for board vote fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 21 pm est bankruptcies keep declining in wny fri jan 3 , 2014 08 : 21 am est winter ’ s brute force persists as ’ polar vortex ’ inflicts dangerous freeze on much of u.s. mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est politicians get quirky to draw donors to their events sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 21 pm est schumer , paul differ sharply on issue of snowden clemency sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 21 pm est court ruling clears way for completion of lewiston condo project sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 21 pm est ny senate gop , progressives detail tax plans tue nov 19 , 2013 8 : 21 pm est finding space for art mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 21 am est western new yorkers prepare for storm mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est bills officials and rogers media reps are set to meet sat jan 4 , 2014 2 : 21 pm est passing on the passion fri jan 3 , 2014 08 : 21 am est mayor rick davis lays out his immediate goals for the city of tonawanda sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 21 am est cuomo to allow medical pot use sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 21 am est degraff to mark 100 years in nt sat jan 4 , 2014 04 : 21 am est do you remember jan .
4 ?
sat jan 4 , 2014 04 : 21 am est © 2014 laurentian publishingbuy mlps at a discount - barrons.com comedian natasha leggero took some heat for a joke she made on national television a few days ago , but on friday , she took to her tumblr to explain to her critics exactly why they are wrong .
" he had to be attended to in the shortest possible time , " the statement said .
the galapagos lie about 600 miles west off the ecuadorean coast .
for the eighth consecutive year , the american public has rated pbs the most trustworthy institution amoung nationally know organizations and an excellent use of tax dollars .
for example , if x and y are sitting on a park bench having a conversation and an undercover police officer sits down on the bench next to them in order to overhear their conversation , this was not traditionally thought to be a " search " within the meaning of the fourth amendment .
this was so because there was no invasion of any physical space owned or controlled by x and y , and because x and y knowingly chose to have their conversation in a public place in front of a stranger .
by having their conversation in such circumstances , they indicated an indifference to the privacy of the conversation and therefore had no reasonable expectation that their conversation was not being overheard .
not surprisingly , the framers did not consider this a " search . "
now suppose that , instead of having an undercover officer sit on the bench , the police use a parabolic microphone to overhear the conversation from a rooftop half-a-mile away .
what do you think ?
the supreme court held that the use of the pen register was not a " search " within the meaning of the fourth amendment , because ( a ) it did not invade any physical space owned or controlled by smith , and ( b ) it did not violate smith 's reasonable expectations of privacy because he had knowingly and voluntarily exposed his calling information to his telephone company .
it is one thing to say that a person who knowingly has a conversation in front of a stranger on a public bench has no reasonable expectation of privacy in the conversation ; it is another thing entirely to say that a person has no reasonable expectation of privacy in information he discloses to his bank or telephone company in order to live reasonably in our modern world .
but even taking smith as a given , judge leon was right that the use of the pen register in smith was a far cry from the nsa 's bulk telephony meta-data program in terms of the scale of its invasion of individual privacy .
this comes back to the impact of technology .
the use of a pen register is time-consuming , fact specific , and costly .
as a practical matter , the government can use it in only a handful of situations .
the knowledge that the government can use a pen register without probable cause and a warrant therefore has almost no effect on the average person 's expectations of privacy or behavior .
we do not hesitate to make phone calls because of the infinitesimal risk that the government might be using a pen register to track our calls .
war and liberty : an american dilemma : 1790 to the present research and markets has announced the addition of the " equatorial guinea oil and gas markets outlook to 2025 ( 12 / 10 / 2013 7 : 04 : 00 am ) boy 's mystery illness leaves him unable to blinkfox newscorbin durant the kid who cannot blinkamerican live wirehighly cited : mystery illness leaves boy unable to blinkabc newssee all 12 sourcesrelated disease kansas : reported cases of flu on the riseshawnee dispatchhard-hitting flu reported in mikob.comsee all 195 sourcesrelated influenza december 30 , 2013 let me commend and congratulate you , mr editor , and the entire staff of your website caribbeannewsnow.com for affording me the opportunity to express myself on your site .
your website is a beacon of hope to the people of the caribbean and is a forum in which they can express their views .
commentary : law and politics : now we have the budget - what next ?
letter : soldiers for christ : in the footstep of tillman thomas commentary : law and politics : a budget of nearly one billion december 10 , 2013 our 2014 budget has been in the news for many months now and , even before it was finally presented by the pm and finance minister , it had to be put off for four days or so because the pm was off the island .
but whatever it may contain , after nearly one year since the all powerful controllers regained the reins ...
letter : grenadians taxed to death by dr mitchell and the nnp letter : an act of terror - is dr mitchell promoting terror and civil unrest ?
helful linksvoter registration informationvoter registration faqsvoting in arkansasare you registered ?
find out ! arkansas election informationvotenaturally.org sunny and dry , but a rather blustery day tue nov 19 , 2013 09 : 15 am est teen dies in route 9 minivan rollover mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 15 am est documents : duo texted scam plans mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 15 am est logans terminal c backed up by delays elsewhere sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 15 pm est dcf caseloads high at leominister office sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 15 pm est ’ a little nervous , ’ walsh reaches out on inaugural eve sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 15 pm est maine man shot and killed in pennsylvania sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est winter is a death threat when the street is your bed mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 15 am est westborough man killed in morning crash mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 15 am est ww ii journal : hudson vet , ’ no one wins at war ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 15 am est pretrial conference scheduled monday for hernandez ’ s fiancee sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est the world braces for retirement crisis sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 15 am est homes planned for littleton parcel sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 15 am est photo : hot steam , cold air mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 15 am est deep freeze on tap for the berkshires mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 15 am est storm ’ s aftermath is icy in scituate mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 15 am est longmeadow man watches climate change push alaskan town to the water ’ s edge mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 15 am est learn to skate with bay state in waltham sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 15 pm est ’ community rewards ’ : local bank donates to waltham ymca sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 15 pm est " it was easy for me to get behind this as an individual rights issue , and as an economic development opportunity , " said holtzclaw , a republican .
he noted that many craft brewers started out brewing at home .
“ rather than see it as threat , ( craft brewers ) see it as a way for folks who are really serious to leave the hobby realm and move over to the professional realm , " he said .
koch ’ s advice to state lawmakers is to give home brewers the benefit of the doubt while putting reasonable safeguards in place : “ home brewers have an enormous amount of respect for the dignity of beer , so cut them a little slack , ” he said .
independent advisor richard burridge sees lots to like in japan .
why he allocates as much as 15 % of his equities portfolios to the country .
“ with the housing market picking up again , ” said ray rasker , a wildfire expert at headwaters economics , a nonpartisan montana-based think tank , “ we ’ re going to see more people building in the fire zones , and the u.s. taxpayers are going to pay for it . ”
burton of the university of colorado doesn ’ t mince words when he talks about responsibility in the wui .
when wildfires threaten homes but not lives , he says a firefighting crew ’ s best option is simple : “ just let it burn . ”
jon muchmore says sevenoaks rugby club 's win against league leaders maidstone sends out a message to the rest of the league.however , he does ...
daniel tulett is feeling on top of the world after pipping the belgian national champion to stand on top of a world cup podium for the first ...
lizzy yarnold got her new season off to a dream start with a superb victory in calgary on saturday.the sevenoaks skeleton star was one of ...
16.countdown to the sochi olympics : the good and the bad 33.restaurant cooks up a hot ad for char-grilled steaks by just lighting the billboard on ...
please click here to try again.privacy policy | customer centerlive helpminimizecloseneed assistance ?
the ananda marga chairman said this while speaking to journalists in dar es salaam over the weekend .
for her part , ukonga legislator , eugen mwaiposa asked people and organisations to support the construction of the hospital in the area .
singapore 's ocbc bank in talks to buy hong kong lender mkm partners sees competitors vying for a part of the lte modem business .
“ just to clarify , we ’ re not at all against the online testing materials , ” he added .
“ it ’ s really good quality software and it ’ s a great learning experience .
students just can ’ t pay to be tested to use it , that ’ s just against our principles . ”
featurejanuary 4its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock for more information on the revised translations , see the usccb 's committee ondivine liturgywebsite.looking for diocese of duluth 's own resources for implementing the roman missal , third edition ?
click on " praying the mass anew " on the left .
the joy of selling in a market for over 40 years a us man who slapped a toddler on a plane has been jailed for eight months 22 : 57 6-jan-14 map2 ] [ hongkong bus timetables ] [ hongkong bus itinery ] [ hongkongairport bus ] [ hongkong disneyland timetable ] [ guangzhou maps ] [ guangzhou mtr ] [ guangzhou hotels ] [ guangzhou airport ] [ train enter hk visa ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqspattaya condo investment scam leaves investors broke in pattaya single minded tourists and ex pat haven boasting some 1600 bars .
it is situated on a 4 km stretch of road along the sea & along the north end are around 96 formally a us military rest stop and recreation from the 60s and 70s it saw a even the nice looking painted artist impression above , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach .
great stories etc .
well it seems theres no condo complex called the royal view talay condominium and the beach remains the same .
did ian turn to embezzling investors ? ?
he owned air king but all these companies have folded we understand and ian is back again enjoying the free money or should we say everyone elses money .
why he did it---well business in thailand is hard and many foreigners who have tried to make it don 't and his pattaya info paper was no match to peter mulhotras pattaya mail or even neils pattaya people .
with no money they trun to the easy way---get it off gullible foreigners who are dumb enough to not check on what they spend in thailand .
as at 2013 is he involved in the www.pattayainfo.com & is he really back in business in pattaya ? ? we know he is in new condo developments .
1 / .
never buy off a plan .
an artists impression is just that ? its not even built .
it does not have sufficient cash to complete without foreigner funds ? no penalty clauses in favour of the buyer if its not finished & no refund 2 / .
is the land really owned by the company--check chanote [ title ] .as those who invested with one richard haughton of harlequin in pattaya --thailand property and media exhibition company ltd . , found out their titles were sold to kasikornbank by haughton to borrow off & they now have no condos nor comeback ? 6 / .
if you give a deposit don 't expect anything back .
do not use paypal , ask for a contract first then get it checked out but please don 't buy off a plan--more and more condos fails as they do not have the cash flow to even start let alopne finish .
pattaya mail that great mag of peter " the indian media mogul " - moulhotra has had his work cut out over the years with the many mags that have circulated in pattaya , but has stood his ground and is still here .
peter is a businessman and a nice guy that knows pattaya inside out and has survived the competition from all sectors . ( which is also regularly available all over thailand & he has also a chiangmai mail ) .
peter being a success as he is has weathered every storm and watches the rest slowly retreat as its not easy publishing in thailand even with the likes of the famous drew noyes the american conman whose pattaya times has shrunk to low lows due to his many foreigner ripoff exploits as portrayed by andrew drummond--the reknown uk crimes & scam reporter .
in fact pattaya mail is the most successful paper to read in pattaya as at 2013 .
ian on the other hand always said his publication pattaya info was multi-language to appeal to many nationalities , and is more of a guide to things thai , with helpful hints , and local news but in fact did not have substance and how he made money beats us hence his turn to being a bigtime property development investment sensation-- ? ? ? .
well , wouldn 't you if the chips are down , you can 't leave the goodlife as youre too old to get a job back in stateside and you read how property developers can get away with it ?
one also needs to boost the bank account to survive the pattaya off season storm and the added expenses like the work permit , visa , taxes living costs and company fees .
was ian up for tax for the magazine & did he have the funds to survive the pattaya highlife rush ? ? ? that he decided to try his hand at property development or was it some other hand telling him to do it .
richard ian silver did disappear with all the money : some say its 20m while others say its 120 m baht so who is right ? ? ? ? some say he 's just taken a vacation & is back in business behind the scenes as at 2013 ?
but why he did it only ian can answer as he 's not a bad sort of guy . not many of the investors have come forward but we would sure like to hear from you fellas so don 't be shy .
maybe ian will read this and feel sorry for you but of course its hard to face the music when one can hide behind a legit thai company--easy to do for the upsuspecting foreigner wanting to buy a condo thats not even built , then scratching his head on how to get his money back .
but we hear he is living the good life some place near the sea and conducting business as usual---yes you got it selling more soon to be started condos in bang saray & jomtien .
we will update you soon april 2013 .
solutions ] [ security protection ] [ security & intelligence reports ] [ pedophilia mp calls to up monthly grant for kuwaiti students in uk & # 38 ; ireland homehomehot topicscurrent affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificmiddle eastmiddle eastpersian gulf statesbahrainiraniraqisraeljordankuwaitlebanonomanpalestineqatarsaudi arabiasyriaunited arab emiratesyemenkuwaitoilsport a man in australia got stuck hiding in a washing machine from his partner and had to be freed using olive oil 12 : 28 6-jan-14 online issueashley tribune homeletter to the editorstory ideascontact usashley mapcity of ashleyashley public schooltony bender home pagedillinger home page the head of security is lazaro twange , the oil jetty manager is capt. abdullah mwingamo , the procurement manager is mashaka kisanta and the procurement and supply manager is michael simba .
at home in russia , at home on the prairie ( 2012 ) here & # 8217 ; s why spain is an economic bright spot in the eurozone instagram gets a museum , and we get a window to the world gladbach hint keeper ter stegen on his way to barcelona homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europewestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkansspaineconomypoliticssport new london cab to be built in spainthe leader newpaper online 18 : 58 6-jan-14 epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] bolivia crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) mineral riches : what 's in there for locals ? na polycarp machira at least 20 of the firms deal in oil and gas while the remaining 23 are engaged in hard metals .
does medicaid lead to lower or higher er usage ?
conflicting evidence fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est oregon ’ s largest bankruptcies , two we missed fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est 5-year-old dies of flu complications : ’ vaccines don ’ t work all the time ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 24 pm est driver wanted for taking out i-84 guardrail sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 24 pm est oregon zoo orangutan kutai dies after illness sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 24 pm est lake o barista flashing suspect bails out of jail sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est couple weds at denver voodoo doughnut sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est police looking for driver who took out i-84 guardrail sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est plane slides off runway at nyc ’ s jfk ; no injuries sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 24 pm est tardy fine slapped on late parents fri oct 23 , 2009 12 : 24 pm edt sinking section of eastbank esplanade closed for repairs mon nov 9 , 2009 4 : 24 pm est man hit in gresham crosswalk holds on mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 24 am est man robbed , tied up at stephanie inn mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 24 am est flasher suspect arrested , faces felonies mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 24 am est alert neighbor thwarts home burglary sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 24 pm est intel will kick off ces by looking beyond the pc mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 24 am est attorneys : subscribe to the intermountain commercial and receive one free copy of the utah professionals in a statement to the huffington post , the airline said : jetblue is committed to operating safely .
we regret the impact to our customers .
so far in 2014 , mother nature is calling the shots .
location : halley stands on the brunt ice shelf .
this flows off the antarctic continent into the weddell sea at a rate of 2m per day , breaking off at the edge to form giant icebergs .
measurements are taken of the ice of antarctica beneath , of the air in the troposphere above , of the ozone in the stratosphere above that , and of the plasma in the geospace beyond them all .
boston red sox shortstop bogaerts makes aruba one happy nation no drones stationed in curacao or aruba , says us consulate aruba to host international conference on combating and preventing crime 33.liz cheney & # 8217 ; s problem ?
she never figured out why she was running .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificnorth americanorth americacanadausamexicousabarack obamaeconomybank regulationhealthcare reformpolitics ( us ) politics blogs ( us ) to see a television advertisement for a business offering payday loans ( technically , " deposit-advance loans " ) is to see payday loans advertised as a lifeline : a way for a financially strapped family to cover an unexpected expense -- like repairing a car to get to work or fixing the furnace to get ...
how to turn the payday lending anchor into a lifeline bu women 's win streak ends at 2wbng-tvbearcats drop conference opener in low scoring affairfox 40 news wicz tvsee realtime coveragesee all 37 sourcesrelated binghamton the world bank classifies the $ 1.2bn loan as a commercial loan and not a concessional arrangement as was supposed to be the case , in which case the gas procured has to fetch optimal prices locally and abroad .
it severely limits the degree to which the government can deliver concessional gas to tanesco as it was otherwise expected .
that is why the gas procurement deal signed with tpdc contains little or no element of ' own use , ' to pay minimal cost recovery prices , etc .
part of the problem can be noticed as relating to economies of scale , in the sense that investing in a natural gas plant where the customer is tanesco principally is like outsourcing , where it is billed that it is better for that investor to take up the job as tanesco does not have the capital .
it is an easy matter to point a finger at who is resisting the preferential supply of gas to tanesco , where in that case it is the permanent secretary who is likely to be on the firing line , unless the minister picks the tab and offloads the weight from his key assistant .
at times the minister may stand aloof for political causes or the president stand aloof as the minister is pilloried ; politics !
after the two terms of two year contracts elapsed in 2008 , where the old energy for privatisation had singularly died off , and the fourth phase government was elected on a populist platform of ' new zeal , new vigour and new pace ' of a revolutionary or socialist character of course ( which the contestant did not elaborate , but it was ' on his lips ' as prof bill clinton would have clarified , all these ideas withered away .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
kasn public filethe silsbee bee - obituaries on the bee business portalproperties for sale in spain at the costa blanca villa in sanet y negrals with panoramic views over sea and mountains beautiful semi- detached villa in the montgo area in denia beutiful villa in one of the best areas of menorca & # 8211 ; binibeca vell- with sea view spain seems to finally get out of the banking crisis .
banking experts expect the consolidation of banks to be finished by the end of the إعداد كتاب نموذج الدليل الإخباري cocos ( keeling ) islands news headlines queenstown pilot antony sproull is about to set off on what he sees as the adventure of a lifetime. read more ( 12 / 27 / 2013 11 : 38 : 10 am ) air côte d 'ivoire et bombardier concluent une entente d 'achat ferme avec des options pouvant totaliser jusqu 'à quatre ...
bombardier aéronautique a annoncé aujourd 'hui que son entente d 'achat avec air côte d 'ivoire , société aérienne basée à abidjan , est maintenant ferme .
la transaction , qui avait été annoncée comme ... ( 12 / 18 / 2013 12 : 02 : 00 pm ) the extension of benefits helps on two of these .
it does not really aggravate the third .
if anything , it could help .
i am a believer in the role of incentives in an economy , including how badly-aligned incentives can result in sub-optimal outcomes .
but i find it hard to make the case here given the evidence on the extent and duration of long-term unemployment .
a topless feminist protestor got more than she bargained for when she stormed a paris fashion week stage and tried to lift a model ’ s skirt .
liverpudlian born hollie-may saker , 18 , punched the femen activist .
“ i knew the scouser in me was bound to come out eventually , ” tweeted saker .
a fun thing to do in -60 ° f cold weather is to throw a pot of boiling water into the air .
often , a solar halo is formed around the sun by the ice crystals in the air .
air of different temperatures refracts light in different ways .
mirages are commonly seen on the horizon in the winter or at the end of winter when the sea-ice has just broken up .
they are a result of temperature differences in the bottom few yards just above the ice or sea surface .
this is the same phenomena responsible for " heat haze " as seen above a road on a very hot day .
ice blink refers to a white glare seen on the underside of low clouds indicating the presence of ice which may be beyond the range of vision .
a corona is a ring of deflected light that surrounds the sun or moon , sometimes forming a colorful disk with the sun or moon at its center .
a fog bow is similar to a rainbow , but without any colors due to the very small size of the water droplets .
featureits trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock by leslie p. nortoninvesting in " owner-operator " stocks can pay off nicely .
by steve sosnickmost of the time , placing faith in the " fed put " is a dangerous exercise in futility .
up and down wall streetstock buybacks ' allure likely to fade by jim mctagueobama has made reversing the trend a priority .
top destinations in 2012 : south carolina and alabama .
german chancellor angela merkel has suffered a pelvis injury during a skiing holiday in switzerland , putting her on the sidelines for the next three weeks .
email · print ; share .
facebook · twitter · tumblr · linkedin · stumbleupon · reddit · digg · mixx ...
the stage is set for a new look mclean county tournament .
the name is different , and so is the format .
i am a current subscriber and need to register on investors.com.
i am not a current subscriber and want to register for free membership on investors.com. argentinaargentineargentinianbain capitalbarack obamaboehnerboliviabudgetcbocfkclintoncnncongresscristina fernandezcristina fernandez kirchnercristina kirchnerdebt ceilingdeficiteconomyedward snowdenelectionemployer mandateemploymententitlementsevo moralesfiscal cliffgang of eight bill hiring incentivehealth careimmigrationinflationinternetjobsla presidentalive-tweetsmainstream media reporting on immigration reformmediamedicaremitt romneyobamaobamacareoccupy wall streetohioonline sales taxowspennsylvaniaphysiciansrepublicansromneyryansequestersocial securityspendingstate governmentsstockssustainable growth ratetaxestaxesthomas sowelltoo much malbectwitterunionswages merkel suffers pelvic fracture on ski holidaybusiness standardmerkel in skiing accident , cancels visitstehran timeshighly cited : german leader angela merkel injured while skiingusa todayfrom germany : merkel to rule from couch after ski accidentthe local.dein depth : why angela merkel tests herself on the ski slopeschristian science monitorsee all 277 sourcesrelated angela merkel japanese prime minister shinzo abe to be republic day chief guesttimes of indiavoldemort invoked again as japan hits back at chinataipei timesfrom china : japan casts dark spell on public opinionglobal timeswikipedia : yasukuni shrinesee all 349 sourcesrelated shinzō abe it will be impossible to understand why anyone should be so reckless or irresponsible as to allow dar es salaam netballers to assemble and register with upcountry teams .
we say a big no to this shameful act and advise that , in case of failure to invite genuine regional teams for the event , the most dignified and professional option would have been to postpone the event .
it was earlier that 250m / - was what was needed for the hosting of the dar es salaam event , but the championship opened with only 5m / - and a few other & ldquo ; handouts & rdquo ; from sponsors in hand !
un peacekeepers in dr congo on alert after killing of army commander banro pours first gold at namoya mine , democratic republic of the congo kuwaiti dinar stood at kd 0.282 per dollar , and the euro at kd 0.384 , said the it ’ s time to launch the boats .
anglers are ready to take to the waters of lake sakakawea in hopes of being in the right place at the right time , using the right kind of bait and having a little bit of luck .
parish information ( select the first letter of the city in which the parish is located . ) abcdefghiklmnoprstvw the silsbee bee intercaribbean launches new flights to san juan from puerto plata and samana homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificcaribbeancaribbeanbahamasbarbadoscubadominican republichaitijamaicapuerto ricopuerto ricosport evander holyfield has been reprimanded on celebrity big brother for making homophobic remarks 09 : 35 6-jan-14 © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedinterviu | cadran politic care va fi viitorul industriilor de apărare din uniunea europeană ?
are românia șansa de a beneficia de o viitoare piață de apărare europeană ?
aceasta a fost întrebarea la care au dorit să răspundă participanții la seminarul & # 8220 ; noi soluții pentru apărarea europeană & # 8221 ; , organizat de către eurodeputații norica nicolai ( vicepreședintă a subcomisiei de securitate și apărare ) și ioan mircea pașcu ( vicepreședinte al comisiei de afaceri externe ) ....
decizia ucrainei nu înseamnă nici sfârșitul partaneriatului estic , nici al influenței uniunii europene în regiune la bruxelles , asociatia internațională a presei a organizat o dezbatere la care a fost invitat de onoare ministrul de externe al lituaniei , linas linkevicius .
lituania deține președinția semenstrială a uniunii europene în acest moment .
dezbaterea , dedicată unei analize de tip politic și geopolitic a evoluțiilor din cadrul parteneriatului estic , a debutat chiar în momentul în care guvernul ...
de ce nu vrea rusia ca ucraina să se orienteze spre uniunea europeană steven blockmans este senior research fellow și șef al departamentului de studii privind politica externă a uniunii europene la centre for european policy studies din bruxelles .
expertiza sa se afla la intersectia a două domenii : legislația internațională și legislația ue referitaore la buna guvernare .
steven blockmans este profesor de drept comunitar de la universitatea din amsterdam și ...
exclusiv : sir graham watson : trebuie să alegem : salvăm proiectul european , rămânând solidari unii cu alții , sau să ne « sinucidem » separat sir graham watson este unul din liderii respectați ai liberalilor europeni .
cunoscut pentru activitatea sa politică neîntreruptă în parlamentul european parlamentului european din 1994 până azi , eurodeputatul britanic s-a remarcat prin criticile pertinente aduse cabinetului barroso , dar și printr sprijinul acordar în ultimii ani româniei în problema precum ridicarea resticțiilor pe ...
“ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko considerat o somitate în unele cercuri ale oamenilor de știință , contestat abitir în altele , respectat și adulat de elevii săi , detestat și acuzat fără rețineri de oponenți , e o legedă vie , pe care el însuși o gestionează cu precizie de maestru , astfel încât chiar și cei care nu îl plac se văd nevoiți să recunoască că este cel puțin o figură interesantă .
știe să treacă ...
calea spre „ mecca ” resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( ii ) și pentru că tocmai am vorbit despre republicile islamice ruse din caucaz … spuneți-ne , considerați că în caucazul de nord a fost o strategie greșită a kremlinului de a transfera o justificare motivată religios și cu implicații globale ( dacă vorbim de războiul împotriva terorismului practicat de grupările radicale ale fundamentalismului islamic ) unui conflict etnic cu rădăcini istorice ?
calea spre « mecca » resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( i ) vă propunem o interesantă și amănunțită radiografie a regiunii caucaz , un spațiu cu o miză uriașă datorită resurselor energetice , de unde și multitudinea de strategii geopolitice , provocări de securitate și mutări politice și economice vizibile sau discrete care pot scăpa uneori și unui ochi avizat .
interlocutor în acest pelerinaj analitic ne-a fost prof. univ. dr ....
un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei alteţa sa regală , prinţul paul al româniei este fiu al asr carol mircea al româniei şi al helenei henriette nagavitzine , nepot pe linie paternă al regelui carol al ii-lea al româniei .
este căsătorit cu prinţesa lia şi au împreună un băiat , carol ferdinand , primul descendent regal născut în românia în ultimii 90 de ani .
valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu tiberius puiu este publicist şi traducător , membru al societăţii române de balcanistică şi slavistică şi al asociaţiei de studii scandinave şi baltice .
este autorul cărţii „ ucraina şi ucrainenii ” în care este prezentată în mod obiectiv istoria ucrainei , precum şi tema holodomorului , marea foamete din 1933 .
a fost distins cu o diplomă de onoare a uniunii scriitorilor din ucraina .... „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză prof. univ. dr .
mircea cinteză , cu o vastă experienţă şi renume în specialitatea cardiologie , este profesor de cardiologie şi medicină internă la catedra de cardiologie şi medicină internă a universităţii de medicină şi farmacie „ carol davila ” , bucureşti ; şeful secţiei de cardiologie a spitalului universitar de urgenţă , bucureşti ; din 1996 este membru al consiliului profesoral ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificafricaalgeriaangolabotswanaburundicamerooncentral african republicdr congoegyptethiopiaghanaguinea-bissauivory coastkenyaliberialibyamadagascarmalimauritiusmoroccomozambiquenamibianigernigeriarwandasomaliasouth africasouth sudansudantunisiaugandazambiazimbabwe " frozen " ices out competition at box office cbs news- & lrm ; 3 hours ago & lrm ; ian holley says security services is working on cutting down that number .
the special constable investigator is a staunch promoter of cycling culture , having served as the auctioneer for macycle ’ s annual bike auction .
if security services can pinpoint a pattern occurring at a location — or better yet — a specific culprit , holley says they ’ ll set up one of their own bikes to be stolen and monitor the area .
while the cycling infrastructure at mcmaster and in its immediate area seems to be on the right track , things don ’ t happen to be as rosy in the city ’ s core where cyclists aren ’ t afforded the same privileges . & ldquo ; we are in the final preparations to launch the second phase of operation tokomeza .
it is important that we bring it back on board as failure to do so will encourage poachers to pursue their illegal activities .
the poaching of elephants has worsened , & rdquo ; said the president in the statement to welcome the new year .
in yesterday ’ s statement , the president applauded the four ministers for taking responsibility for the mishandled operation. head lawyer is mr. dhira who is affiliated with pestalozzi gmuer as at 2010 we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money .
he has also worked in regulatory and transactional matters of finance and insurance law and he has litigation and arbitration experience in experience in corporate and commercial law as well as international and as insolvency procedures .
he also has extensive experience in real ll.b. thammasat university .
she is a senior associate and has mostly iceland cements its position as top choice for filmmakers the world over for those who are intrigued to discover how the locals celebrate new year 's eve in iceland , but aren 't fortunate enough to make it in person , they can now be a part of the festivities anywhere in the world ... ( 12 / 27 / 2013 10 : 07 : 19 am ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reserved2010 lumberton homecoming parade on the bee million ) , yet the company with the lowest bid has won the contract . ( end ) tajikistan who and development partners conducted assessment of the quality of antenatal and postnatal care in tajikistan the forward edge of the millennials are moving into their 30s , and the outlines of a generation are starting to fill in .
now it 's the millennials turn .
by the end of the decade , they 'll be almost half the workforce and moving en masse into positions of strategy and policy .
feeling blue ?
some say today is the most depressing day of the ...
man who slapped toddler on us flight gets 8-month prison sentence man gets eight months in prison slapping toddler on plane dish takes new joeys out of the pouch at ces 2014 “ one of the students came to me and said , ‘ we know something is happening , but no one is talking about this . ’
i talked to the principal and said there needed to be more dialogue , ” recalled eliason , a republican .
“ having blinders on and not talking about it does not help anyone , ” anielski said in an interview with the sun news of ohio .
the challenge is separating gun safety from the politically fraught issue of gun control , said catherine barber , one of the co-authors of the study . no one can survive needs without water , which is why it is of fundamental importance for the liquid to be made available at a cost as affordable as possible and on a basis as reliable and sustainable as practicable .
when the constitutional review commission presented the second draft of the envisaged new constitution for tanzania on monday , it was passing on the relay baton in a race meant to culminate in the birth of the country ’ s first truly homegrown mother law .
two months ago or so , the leadership of the ruling chama cha mapinduzi came out in public to claim that some of its members appointed by president jakaya kikwete to the ministerial posts have turned out to be a burden .
in a word they are all calling for a better world .
juzi , mamlaka ya udhibiti wa huduma za nishati na maji ( ewura ) , ilitangaza rasmi ongezeko la gharama za umeme kwa asilimia 50 .
bei hiyo mpya itaanza kutumika rasmi januari mosi , mwakani .
revamping and modernising our agriculture by engaging higher levels of mechanisation , greater use of better seeds and other inputs as well as lending a keener ear to extension staff doubtless pays .
for instance , while it once took up to six hours to travel by bus on a dusty road from morogoro to dar es salaam , it now takes a mere three hours – and it is even shorter by car .
zimebaki siku chache tu kabla ya kuwadia kwa sikukuu ya krismasi inayoadhimishwa desemba 25 ya kila mwaka ambapo wakristo wote duniani husherehekea siku ya kuzaliwa kwa yesu kristo .
the ongoing championship earmarked for the under-20 strings of mainland tanzania ’ s top flight clubs deserves more support if it is to help in uplifting the quality and status of our soccer .
not that we care so much for the faces involved , but the recent developments within this country ’ s major opposition party , the chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , are worrisome .
there is the saying that a stitch in time saves nine .
put simply is the need to ensure that what can be made now is not put off for another day .
it is encouraging because for the past few years tazara has put up a dismal performance with aged locomotive engines and poor management .
as the country prepares for funerals and burial of the late dr sengondo mvungi this weekend up to monday , the rest of us are locked in reflection on his life and career , to discover how rich it was and the gap that remains .
as recently as last weekend , natural resources and tourism minister khamis kagasheki and police officers impounded 706 pieces of ivory in a posh dar es salaam suburb .
for instance , while in those ages gone by people used to walk miles and miles from village to village , now it takes a matter of hours or minutes to do so by bus or car for individuals who can afford the comfort .
ccm chairman and union president jakaya kikwete had a few sober words for ruling party executives at a seminar in the legislative capital of dodoma on friday , which is likely to be food for thought for ccm supporters and leaders all over the country , and similarly , to equally dubious effects , for all intents and purposes .
a war of words has been engaged between the ministry of natural resources and mineral on the one hand and local investors on the other , as to how far the local private sector can participate in harnessing the natural gas ’ manna ’ that has been exciting everyone ’ s imagination , from makonde elders to the london stock exchange .
a boy is using satellite internet at home .
he grumbles at how slow it is downloading .
the father pleads for a bit of patience and understanding , saying : & ldquo ; give it a moment ; it has to go to outer space and back , you know ! & rdquo ; a sizeable proportion of hospital admissions and outpatients in health facilities are due to the disease .
for a long time tanzania was reputed as a haven of peace and tranquility .
as a matter of fact , it is this reputation that has attracted investors and tourists to the country .
it is common for the national stadium in dar es salaam to be filled to capacity whenever young africans and simba meet in either the premiership or any other competitive football match .
the government has now allowed trucks and upcountry buses to use the old system of a five per cent allowable axle-load for a month pending recommendations from a team of experts and stakeholders currently looking into the matter .
what reading should one make of reports about the undermining of efforts to ensure that malaria patients across tanzania pay only as much for one of the drugs of choice as they ought to – and not a cent more ?
there should be no euphemisms or mincing of words here : whoever is behind the practice is engaged in crime and it is not merely a case of running against professional ethics .
the nation is looking on in awe and disbelief as the face-off between the tanzania bus owners association ( taboa ) and the tanzania association for truck owners ( tatoa ) on the one hand and the works ministry on the other takes its toll .
the government is getting increasingly draconian with the media – for reasons we cannot yet tell .
this country is not under a state of emergency .
so why close newspapers , if we may ask ?
wiki iliyopita ilikuwa ni mbaya kwa viwango vyovyote katika tasnia ya habari nchini .
ni wiki ambayo serikali iliendelea kuitumia sheria ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inatoa madaraka yasiyohojiwa kwa serikali kufungia vyombo vya habari , kwa kile ambacho kimekuwa kinadaiwa kuwa ni kuendesha uchochezi .
those who stole taxpayers ' trillions should be arrested and prosecuted get your daily dosage of cartoons from kabwela , the flexibles and dogo join td ameritrade and trade free for 60 days and get up to $ 600 note : offers may be valid in the us only .
the information and links on this page are provided for your convenience only .
barron 's is not a registered broker-dealer and does not endorse or recommend the services of any brokerage company .
the information and services that can be accessed through these links are provided by the individual brokerage companies , not barron 's .
the brokerage company you select is solely responsible for its services to you , the user .
barron 's shall not be liable for any damages or costs of any type arising out of or in any way connected with your use of a brokerage company 's services .
an oil field worker walks away from an derrick outside of williston , n.d. thanks to a surge of production on bakken shale , the state ’ s economic growth is tops in the nation — by far ( ap ) .
north dakota ’ s economy wasn ’ t much to behold a decade ago .
but that ’ s changed dramatically thanks to surging oil and gas production on its bakken shale .
hydraulic fracturing by energy drillers may not be the heaviest consumer of water on parched land .
but environmentalists and some farmers are starting to worry about it. competition related to fishing will be held in the fishermen 's diwaniah in salmiya on january 25 , the second in the fishermen diwaniah in al-watya on semantics 101 : goldman 's biotech downgrade and the new biotech consensus can macau gaming do it again ?
citi has maximum bullish call on 2014 steven pikelny of morningstar is onto the theme of bargains in municipal bond closed end funds : sign up for the safe checking in the electronic age e-mail list to receive our newsletter .
in addition , we may use any information submitted by or collected from you via the site for any purpose related to the site , including to contact you for customer service purposes , to inform you of important changes or additions to our site or the services offered over our site , and to send you administrative notices and any other communications that we believe may be of interest to you .
your choices . when we request information from you on the site , you may always choose not to provide us with that information . but if you decline to supply or provide us with certain information while using the site , you may not be able to use or participate in some or all of the features offered through the site .
the british company has won the official support of cameroon ’ s president and the regime ’ s dignitaries for its development work on the logbaba field . ( ... )
imprisoned marafa hamidou yaya marafa and iya mohammed iya have cast a long shadow over the ruling rdpc in the lead-up to cameroon ’ s parliamentary elections . ( ... )
if you are interested in being a jc for camp survive you must have completed 10th grade .
it also helps if you attended camp survive in the past , but it is not a requirement .
to help defray the cost of your stay we askjcs to pay $ 65.clickhere for an application letter andform to become a jc ! clickhere for your jc permission form wilmar castro llamó a la unidad para hacer de portuguesa una potencia socioproductivaa la unidad llamó el gobernador wilmar castro soteldo para que todos los actores de la sociedad portugueseña contribuyan a hacer de este estado una potencia ... revolución brinda nuevas oportunidades a pescadores neoespartanoscréditos y equipos por un monto de 3 millones 243 mil 925 bolívares fueron entregados por el gobernador , carlos mata figueroa , en un acto que se realizó en el complejo ... zarpes diarios desde la guaira hacia punta de piedras se mantendrán hasta el 15 de enerohasta el próximo 15 de enero podrían extenderse los zarpes diarios de la nueva conferry desde el puerto de la guaira , estado vargas , hacia punta de piedras , estado nueva ...
wilmar castro llamó a la unidad para hacer de portuguesa una potencia socioproductiva zarpes diarios desde la guaira hacia punta de piedras se mantendrán hasta el 15 de enero 14 atletas bolivarenses recibieron reconocimientos y viviendas por logros en 2013 la gobernación de bolívar entregó este lunes reconocimientos , premios en metálico y viviendas a atletas que pusieron en alto el nombre de esta entidad durante 2013 , destacando el caso del esgrimista rubén limardo , quien obtuvo el primer lugar en la copa del mundo en buenos aires , argentina a través del fondo de previsión social , 115 funcionarios del instituto autónomo cuerpo de policía de cojedes recibieron recursos para cubrir gastos médicos , odontológicos y quirúrgicos , informó el director de esa institución , teniente coronel ( gnb ) alberto fermín ulisse retornan temporadistas a maracaibo resguardados por 3.800 efectivos de seguridad los temporadistas zulianos retornan a sus hogares resguardados por unos 3.800 efectivos de seguridad , distribuidos en todo el territorio regional para garantizar la seguridad de los temporadistas en los 21 municipios del estado gobierno creará este año escuelas deportivas en consejos comunales de lara crear escuelas deportivas en cada uno de los consejos comunales del estado lara este 2014 es una de las metas del gobierno nacional a través del ministerio para el deporte , afirmó este lunes el coordinador estadal de ese despacho , naudy ledezma gobierno de eficiencia en la calle llevó el buen vivir a mirandinos durante 2013 mirandinos conmemoran día de reyes con actividades recreativas y promoción de lectura aragua contará con 44 nuevas canchas de grama artificial este año reyes magos llevan alegría a pacientes de centros asistenciales de vargas the shopping list is starting to make its way from the grocery store to the menu .
the electoral team of robinson jean louis , who won 46.5 % of votes in the run-off in the presidential election , are thinking of calling upon his supporters to put pressure on a cour ( ... )
beriziky keeps a close watch on the bni sale in madagascar the ruling chama cha mapinduzi is tossing ’ yellow carded ’ to its members who have started gunning for the presidency come 2015 , saying the party could blacklist them from the electoral process .
ccm vice-chairman ( mainland ) philip mangula sounded the warning yesterday in dar es salaam when he spoke to reporters – but he fell short of naming the individuals on the run .
mangula said it was against the party ’ s constitution for individuals to go around conducting what he described as ’ blackmailing campaigns ’ through under the guise of fundraising events and donations .
mr sumaye , who was one of ccm ’ s top three candidates in the 2005 presidential race but lost to mr kikwete , warned his party that it would lose the next election if it picks a corrupt candidate .
yesterday ’ s press conference came a day after mr lowassa , one of those said to be eyeing the presidency , lambasted the current leadership for allegedly not being bold enough .
mr lowassa declared himself fit and ready for the top job .
but in what appeared to be a swipe at mr lowassa , mr sumaye accused the immediate former pm of misleading the public that he was behind a water project in shinyanga .
mr sumaye was the prime minister when mr lowassa served as minister for water and livestock development in the third phase regime .
cairo is doing its utmost to have a say in the construction of a 6,000 mw power plant , but the egyptians may not succeed . ( ... )
a full week of violent riots in several towns throughout the country against the reduction in subsidies to oil products demanded by the imf at the end of september was all that was needed to smash to smithereens the illusion of a united regime in sudan . ( ... )
new finds by oil companies in sudan have been few and far between but star oil seems to be pulling it off . ( ... )
turf wars at the top in sudan ’ s oil sector tend to result in a lot of quick turnover ( ... )
former oil adviser to nigerian presidents olusegun obasanjo , umaru yar ’ adua and ( ... )
on my way to russia , to carry the olympic torch ...
steven seagal may run for arizona governor so he can stop illegal ...
restaurant cooks up a hot ad for char-grilled steaks by just lighting the billboard on ...
how to open a tin can using just your bare handsthe huffington post uk 19 : 10 6-jan-14 middle eastiran iraqiran not invited to un syria talksiraq pm pledges to defeat ' terrorists ' press roomuse our contentcontact rfe / rlpress releasesrfe / rl expertsjournalists in troublethe rundown aboutmission statementhistory / archivescorporate governanceinternships / fellowshipsfast facts & faqvisit rfe / rl sermon on the mount sex scandal just latest misadventure for kyrgyz muftis who 's in charge ?
' black sheep ' presidencies to watch in 2014 once a rebel , ngun cung lian now works with burma ’ s government in its bid to attract foreign investors . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 1 : 34 : 39 pm ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reserved we made it !
looking back on our unplugging challenge | arianna huffington it wasn 't just my body .
my mind was also racing with thoughts about my connectivity-related habits .
i found myself thinking about my inbox .
was it piling up ?
was i missing emails of earth-shaking consequence ?
by unplugging now , was i simply adding to my future stress by saving up emails i 'd have to respond to later ?
it was a great relief to know that i had an away message explaining that i was on a digital fast , so at least i wasn 't going to be insulting everyone i knew and loved by not promptly responding .
unplugging meant rediscovering and savoring the moment for its own sake .
which is to say , taking in a view without tweeting it .
eating a meal without instagramming it .
hearing my daughters say something hilarious and very shareable without sharing it .
my unplugging protocol also raised a few questions .
for example , during the hour of office check-in each day i had allowed myself , what happens if your daughter walks in the room and wants to chat ?
do you add some time to the hour ?
is that cheating ?
if you joined us in the unplugging challenge , please let us know in the comments section how it went and what the experience taught you .
the adages " no rest for the weary " and " no rest for the wicked " are well known .
keeping their eye on the prize that may be down the road just a bit is the goal for the comets boys hoops team ...
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
photos : 20-year-old hot yoga lover has the best instagram account on the internet saint vincent and the grenadines crude oil consumption by year leo dicaprio 's depiction of jordan belfort is partially accurate , but the victims are nowhere to be seen .
and he attracts the attention of an fbi agent , played by kyle chandler .
belfort stashes his dough in switzerland , and that 's where his unraveling begins .
scorsese , however , is not a prosecutor , and he 's using belfort to riff on a theme that runs through many of his movies .
he is the great american bard of addiction — to violence as well as drugs .
in the wolf of wall street , which is scheduled to open on christmas day , sex takes the place of violence , and the drug consumption may be the greatest in the history of american movies .
you can follow the plot , or you can measure the coke .
you 'll never be able to do both .
but sex and drugs are just the trappings .
entering franchising as baby boomer presents both perks and challenges restaurants and plumbers to vets in your area .
it 's all here , decided you 'd like a pet , or need a local vet for the pet you we also have pet of the month !
win a 3kg bag of cat or looking for a place to eat or a takeaway meal ?
use tasty to search for the best food in kent ...
follow our two view listings for all age groups to help you find the best & ldquo ; willed by god in the very act of creation , marriage and the family are interiorly ordained to fulfillment in christ and have need of his graces in order to be healed from the wounds of sin and restored to their ’ beginning , ’ that is , to full understanding and the full realization of god ’ s plan . & rdquo ; ( john paul ii , familiaris consortio # 3 ) an initiative of the united states conference of catholic bishops ibd stock checkup - givesyou a simple overall rating for safe environment > charter for theprotection of children and young peopleclick here to view the charter parnell and his supporters say the answer to alaska ’ s woes is simple : cut taxes .
“ this is alaska ’ s most important decision in the last half of the century , ” said dan donkel , owner of donkel oil and gas , an independent producer .
“ it effectively gives away alaska ’ s oil , ” said ray metcalfe , a former republican legislator who is spearheading a petition effort that would let alaskans vote on the tax break on the 2014 ballot .
“ those who are unfamiliar with the shortcomings of the government take as a criterion tend to overuse it , ” the interior-commissioned report says .
parnell ’ s critics , however , point out the rate of alaska ’ s production decline has slowed slightly in recent years , while oil and gas employment has increased as signs that alaska ’ s fate under palin ’ s brainchild is not all doom and gloom .
meanwhile , wielechowski remains optimistic that improvements in technology and new discoveries of unconventional oil and gas open up taps on the north slope , helping alaska refill its coffers and keep its permanent fund permanent .
“ with or without a tax cut , ” wielechowski said , “ you ’ re going to see production ramp up . ”
between the lakes and pines , the castle is the perfect place to have fun , think about who god is and what effect he has in your life .
jesus calls everyone to follow him .
come and see if he is calling you to follow him as a priest .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuela machines or photo studios at the new airport in bangkok so ousted egyptian president mohamed morsi is referred for third trialwashington postegypt to try mohamed morsi for murder in further blow to islamistsabc onlinefrom egypt : morsi referred to criminal courtdaily news egyptsee all 732 sourcesrelated egypt department , said in a statement to kuna that the residents who corroborated department of the ministry of interior and the public authority for civil four people were arrested in connection with the incident , that is seleman hamis ( 24 ) , a resident of majengo in usa river area , patrick richard ( 21 ) , jabu yasini ( 25 ) and hamisi juma all residents of kisambare in arumeru district .
great quest to develop botswana 's sua pan brownfield potash project i pledge to be a part of the solution rather than contribute to the problem .
i pledge to step up and stop bullying in my school and neighborhood .
is there a state model policy i can use to create anti-bullying policies at my school or district ?
no tax hike in upper saucon for 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 24 pm est ppl takes annual meeting out of town sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 24 pm est ’ but officer , the speed limit is 70 mph , can ’ t i go 80 ? ’
sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 24 pm est agencies limited on how to help the homeless in the cold sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 24 pm est cvas pets of the week : murdock and sergio sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 24 pm est furry friends of the week : boo bear , theo and leo sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 24 pm est off-leash socialization at shaffer park sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 24 pm est chambersburg to open warming center for residents sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 24 pm est two arrested for retail theft at walmart sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 24 pm est fire damages home in myerstown sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 24 pm est two dead in three car crash on i-81 in franklin county sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 24 pm est bacon by the bundle sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 24 pm est detractors outnumber supporters at healthypa hearing fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 24 pm est dem candidates plow the field at pa .
farm show mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est annuity or a nuisance ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est fly , eagles , cry mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est daily news pet of the week : lexington mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est a different idea to spark a hub for philly startups mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est what ’ s that smell ?
not gas , say pgw , peco mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 24 am est university of pennsylvania grads take aim at reckless sleeping mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est jihad jane set to be sentenced mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est the jewels of islam mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est eagles fan spits on saints fan mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 24 am est man & dog killed in hit-and-run mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est eagles fan spits on saints fan sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 24 pm est jihad jane sentencing sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 24 pm est plane slides off runway at nyc ’ s jfk ; no injuries sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 24 pm est uss-posco to lay off 690 employees in california fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 24 pm est here ’ s who you can talk to about m & a fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 24 pm est report : munchak to interview for penn state job sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 24 pm est authorities waiting on toxicology results in beechview crash tue oct 29 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt ag sues conneaut lake park trustees in effort to save park tue oct 29 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt crowd rallies for change on the streets of jeannette mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est 11 new places to stay for monroe county ’ s homeless mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est arrest made in schuylkill county slashing mon jul 23 , 2012 11 : 24 am edt ’ nova stomps providence mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est spieth in tie for lead at kapalua mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est malkin powers penguins ’ rally mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 24 am est homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelauruguaysport homehomehot topicscurrent affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificsouth pacificsouth pacificaustraliasamoafijinew zealandfijisport have your lawyer not theres look at the contract and advise you !
remember you need to be able to get your property out when you want or change the status as well as not incurring unusual costs ? ? ? ? & also rmember a company can be here today and gone tomorrow as well so alls these facts are worth considering .
to change the land status a fee you may incur may be high but again ask your legal adviser .
pakistan ’ s husain haqqani has tough words for his home country – and for its supposed ally , the united states the mclean county board of equalization is scheduled to meet in commission chambers in washburn on monday at 11 a.m.
it was poised to be a decisive week for the garrison school district .
martinique magnifique travel shows to be held in new york and miami us tsa official to present at state of the tourism industry conference in martinique one step at a time -- the gabr fellows ' story bridging the east-west divide : my experience at nyu abu dhabi the partisan , racial and generational divide : how we view arabs and muslims america has a good story ; but it 's not the one politicians tell netanyahu creates a big new government to do nothing but survive " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .
the joy of being a priest : following the cure of ars by christoph cardinal schoenbornmany are called : rediscovering the glory of the priesthood by dr. scott hahnthe grace of ars : reflections on the life and spirituality of st. john vianneyby fr .
frederick millersharing christ 's priesthood : a bible study for catholics by mike aquilinathe cure d 'ars : st. jean-marie-baptiste vianney by abbe francois trochusermons of the cure of ars presbyterorum ordinis ( decree on the ministry and life of priests ) perfectae caritatis ( decree on the adaptation and renewal of religious life a male governor is more likely to be seen as too partisan and as a " typical politician . "
his highness the amir praised allah the almighty to betow his blessing on the deceased .
pe o piata mass-media , în care multi se declara a fi apolitici si echidistanti , noi ne asumam prin titlul revistei caracterul politic al acestei publicatii .
din punctul nostru de vedere , nu exista nimic în afara dimensiunii politice .
politica înseamna pu-tere .
politica o întâlnim în interiorul statului ca forma de organizare a puterii si în orice relaţie umana ca forma de dominare şi supunere .
de la banala deţinere a telecomenzii în cadrul unei familii , care sugerează în acelaşi timp controlul si puterea decizionala , pâna la raportul dintre presedinte si premier , totul a devenit politic în societatea de astazi .
apolitismul nu înseamna neimplicare politica , iar cei care se declara apolitici nu fac altceva decât sa creeze iluzia echidistantei .
pasivitatea politica poate însemna atât dezinteres manifestat fata de activitatea politica cât si refuzul constient al partizanatului politic .
contrar interpretarilor date sondajelor de opinie , apolitismul manifestat la noi nu este unul al lipsei de interes , ci unul determinat de neîncredere , generat de prea multe dezamagiri . românii , în general , sunt fascinati de scena politica , însa sanctioneaza prin indiferenta ( absenteism electoral ) personajele politice .
desi este iluzorie cre-dinta ca cetateanul poate participa direct la luarea deciziilor politice , el este parte a politicii si reprezinta garantia ei .
tocmai de aceea , consideram ca indiferenta politica devine periculoasa daca nu este dublata de o informare reala si permanenta .
informatia bruta , preluata fara filtru si analiza poate deveni un inamic , te poate transforma în victima a manipularii si apoi în masa usor manevrabila .
ideea aparitiei revistei cadran politic a fost aceea de a oferi puncte de vedere si analize pertinente ale evenimentelor si proceselor politice interne si internationale , într-un moment în care nevoia de clarificari este mai mare ca oricând .
echipa redactionala nu-si doreste sa va furnizeze aceste certitudini , ci doar informatii si posibile grile de interpretare , construite pe baze stiintifice , astfel încât fiecare dintre noi sa capete o întelegere proprie asupra evenimetelor politice si sociale .
autorii materialelor pe care vi le propunem în paginile acestei publicatii sunt specialisti în stiinte sociale , mass-media si oameni de cultura ale caror puncte de vedere sunt importante pentru a oferi o imagine de ansamblu asupra lumii de astazi .
pentru ca fiecare dintre noi are propriile atitudini si valori , nu putem sa afirmam ca fiecare articol în parte va fi deplin neutru sau impartial .
putem afirma , fara teama de a gresi , ca revista este independenta din punct de vedere politic , ca orice opinie îsi va gasi locul în paginile ei , fie ea de dreapta sau de stânga .
suntem non-partizani , fara a fi apolitici .
promisiunea pe care o facem acum , la început de drum , cititorilor nostri este una de seriozitate si respect pentru cuvântul scris si mai ales pentru cei care , dorind o panorama a vietii politice , dincolo de paginile de scandal , vor deveni partenerii nostri de dialog .
neec : oil and gas sector poses serious empowerment challenges na carolyne madoshi in an exclusive interview with the guardian at the weekend neec executive secretary dr anaclet kachuriza said similar programmes on oil and gas industry were yet to start in coal mining , but added that the council is will use the knowledge in the former to aid the latter , for the benefit of the society .
dr kachuriza said , & ldquo ; this coming financial year our emphasis will focus on oil and gas in order to shape up on the local content as the public needs prior knowledge about the industry in the course of utilising the resources & rdquo ; .
commenting on the importance of the sector , he said , the promotion of oil and gas industry will facilitate the growth of agriculture .
he said implementation of the traceability programme in beekeeping has been progressive as the barcode system now is applied in beehives , and bee products have swiftly captured international markets .
chilewa urged tanzanians to change their mindset on agriculture and invest in the sector especially beekeeping because it creates employment .
“ this is enough !
we are scared to death !
the economy hasn ’ t recovered , and now these bur ...
what ’ s the best landmark chinatown could have ?
is it a western-style marble gate or a ch ...
in california , students and parents prefer the new school lunches the most expensive bike was auctioned at around $ 110 , while the cheapest bike was sold for only $ 1 to a woman who told others at the auction that it was her own stolen bike .
december 05the end of the beginning of mending muni finances petition is launched to try to save avdc offices in buckingham and winslow - buckingham advertiser petition is launched to try to save avdc offices in buckingham and winslow i kid you not .
here is how it was reported in politico : : a bill to allow the states to nullify any federal law ( didn 't we settle that in 1865 ? ) ; a bill to prohibit lap dancing and jello wrestling ( which contained fascinating definitions of the terms " nudity " and " sexual device " ) ; road woes no more : saints pick up 26-24 win at eagles sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est nice day for a black and gold wedding sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 14 am est man wanted for robbery in the french quarter sat jan 4 , 2014 5 : 14 pm est klement ’ s ceo john klement retires fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est waukesha builder to get $ 750,000 for opening leo frigo early fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 20 pm est venturedyne ceo to pitch new school in pewaukee fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 20 pm est leo frigo bridge to reopen on sunday fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 20 pm est post-recession , manufacturers adapting to ’ the new normal ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 20 pm est packer ticket-holders bulk up on cold-weather gear for sunday ’ s game sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est end of birth notices a sad sign of fears of stranger danger sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 20 pm est port washington clears way for duluth trading co. to own building sat dec 21 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est once-sagging leo frigo bridge to reopen in time for packers game fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 20 pm est former clerk kathy nickolaus plans a run for waukesha county board tue dec 17 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est shooting on milwaukee ’ s northside , no one in custody sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est winter weather can be tough on cars sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 20 am est man injured in oak creek house fire sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 20 am est svend robinson on being canada 's first out gay mpby xtra editor chris kluwe ' pretty confident ' he was fired because of activismby natasha barsotti " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.世界新聞網-english news în data de 15 decembrie a.c. la academia română a avut loc festivitatea de acordare premiilor pentru cele mai bune cărţi publicate în anul 2009 .
colegei nostre virginia mircea i-a fost decernat din partea secţiei de filosofie premiul „ vasile conta ” pentru cartea „ islamul şi soarta lumii .
fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” .
prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate ...
terorismul este o plagă .
poate fi inclus în maladiile cronice ale omenirii , o catastrofă de mărimea celor naturale , dar făcut de mâna oamenilor , la fel ca şi războiul .
ştiri despre manifestările teroriste sunt zilnic .
atentate cu bombe , autori invizibili şi victime nevinovate .
maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile ...
tags : noua dimensiune a terorismului international , virginia mircea , vitrina cu cărți în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea ....
cartea “ razboiul secret din anul 1989 “ cerceteaza o tema ce apartine celei mai recente istorii ( 1989-1991 ) din romania dar si din celelal te tari foste socialiste din europa , inclusiv din fosta uniune sovietica .
revolutia din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator este prima carte dintr-o serie de sapte volume dedicate ultimelor doua decenii din istoria româniei .  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia ...
tags : emil constantinescu , pacatul originar , revolutia din decembrie  89 , sacrificiul fondator , vitrina cu cărți & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma ...
tags : a fi musulman , alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal , democratie , el hassan bin talal , islam , pace , vitrina cu cărți cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressthe challenges of year-end forecasting - barrons.com a pensioner had to be treated in hospital after being pushed to the ground in a daylight robbery .
a teenager was stopped in a busy street and had what he thought was a gun pointed straight at him before he fled .
invicta dynamos put the controversy of saturday night behind them as they thrashed chelmsford chieftains on sunday .
play today 's quiz below to see if you can top the leader-board and return tomorrow for a new set of questions !
register your result and you could win £ 250 !
audi is to showcase new front lighting technology that uses super-powerful laser diodes just a few thousandths of a millimetre in diameter men 's wearhouse launches hostile $ 1.6bn bid for jos a bank now i am pretty sure she is the most organized editor in the business .
she is a seasoned pro with the english language yet doesn & # 8217 ; t seem to know the meaning of procrastination .
to oversee and regulate the availability , distribution and use of water , the government has set up water authorities in a number of urban centres .
january 3 , 2014 where is cuba , venezuela , iran , syria , the alba membership and all the rubbish non-aligned countries who we are now aligned with ?
where are they in our hour of want , where are they ?
where ?
where ?
where are all the countries who we have done favours for in the united nations ?
letter : was the flood tragedy at buccament caused by greed or simply by ignorance and stupidity ?
letter : have we destroyed the gold ore at argyle airport ?
letter : it was not a state visit after all , but was it a gonsalves jolly up ?
letter : did prime minister gonsalves simply beg an audience with the pope ?
st vincent pm to make dominican republic a priority as caricom chairman stay , save and say ' i do ' with the divi & tamarijn aruba all inclusives wedding and honeymoon packages verwenden sie ein mobiles gerät ?
huffpost mobile finden sie unter http : / / m.huffpost.com / de / ..
deutschland diskutiert empört darüber , ob ein bahnvorstand ronald pofalla noch mitglied des bundestages sein darf .
ich meine , er darf .
und ich bin verwundert , dass darüber diskutiert wird .
warum ich das bin ?
ich will es erklären .
der durchschnittliche bundestagsabgeordnete ist in dutzenden verbänden und vereinen mitglied .
das ist zugleich seine hausmacht , ohne die er von seiner partei gar nicht erst für die wahl nominiert würde .
ein kandidat , der sich nur seinem gewissen verpflichtet fühlt , hätte überhaupt keine chance .
niemals sagte jürgen klinsmann sätze wie : " das ist unmöglich , das haben wir noch nie so gemacht . "
er war ein revolutionär , dessen innovativer verdienst darin besteht , die bedingungen modernisiert zu haben , unter denen trainer in deutschland arbeiten .
so mancher business traveller nutzt die chance und verlängert seinen hotelaufenthalt gern um ein oder zwei tage für private erholung .
warum auch nicht ?
liegt der geschäftstermin an einem freitag , erspart man sich die stressige rückreise .
mit prognosen ist das ja immer so eine sache : die einen hören sich abgehoben an , die anderen zu vorhersehbar , fast schon langweilig .
wenn es um social media geht , ist das schwieriger , selbst die hanebüchensten visionen könnten jederzeit realität werden .
sind wir app-muffel ?
rund 20 prozent der deutschen smartphone-besitzer haben gar keine apps auf ihrem handy .
dabei gibt es genügend apps , die das smartphone zu einem sinnvollen begleiter machen .
wir sagen ihnen , welche apps sie nicht mehr missen möchten .
kurznachrichten versus social messaging , tragbare technologie , bitcoins und dronen : das sind die trendthemen der digitalen wirtschaft für das jahr 2014 .
sie sind allgegenwärtig und doch werden sie unser leben für immer verändern .
okay , das hier ist der letzte jahresrückblick .
ihr kennt doch sicher mundmische.de - das gossenlexikon im internet , vielleicht das deutsche urban dictionary .
wie jedes jahr wird dort das wort des jahres gewählt und siehe da : der falafelkrieg ist gewonnen !
es zeigt sich immer deutlicher , dass israel im östlichen mittelmeer große gas-vorkommen ausbeuten und sich gleichzeitig zu einem export-land wandeln kann .
dabei zeigt sich , dass israel ohnehin das beste aus seiner komplizierten situation macht .
seit wochen sorgt china für propagandatechnische paukenschläge .
zuerst besuchte präsident xi ein kleines restaurant in der hauptstadt peking ohne presse und security .
und nun zeigte sich die regierung in einem video , wie man sie noch nie gesehen hat .
eva biber hat lange davon geträumt , aus dem täglichen trott auszusteigen .
der große tag für die neuausrichtung ihres lebens kommt , als ihre zwillinge ausziehen und zur uni gehen .
eva entschließt sich , fortan nicht mehr aufzustehen und im bett zu bleiben .
haben sie sich auch im letzten jahr über das unverständliche und seltsame deutschsprachige regietheater geärgert ?
etwa über die ‚ ekligen ' blutverschmierten halbnackten auf der bühne ?
wenn ja , dann sollten sie im neuen jahr häufiger ins theater gehen , weil : wer es als krimi-liebhaber gerne historisch mag , der kann sich ruhigen gewissens diesen kriminalroman zu gemüte führen , der im umfeld des preußenkönigs friedrich spielt .
dabei hält autor oliver buslau sein wissen rund um das leben am hofe nicht zurück .
liebe ist , wenn das röntgenbild meiner lunge einige abnormale befunde aufweist und der arzt mich bedächtig auf die masse in meiner brust aufmerksam macht sowie auf die flüssigkeitsansammlung um meine lunge . „ das muss nichts schlimmes sein " , meint er .
nicht mehr rauchen , mehr zeit für die familie , ein neue projekt : haben sie sich vorsätze fürs neue jahr gemacht und zweifeln schon an ihnen ?
keine sorge : ängste , lähmender leistungsdruck und andere innere widerstände lassen sich elegant aushebeln .
ärzte sicher : schumacher momentan nicht in lebensgefahr dpaalle updates zu michael schumacher im live-blog nach hinrichtung des onkels : nun soll auch kim jong-uns tante tot seindpa eu-kommission zur migranten-debatte : sie dürfen frei entscheiden , wo sie arbeiten wollenshutterstock dreikönigstreffen : lindner sieht fdp in " historischer lage " dpa " sind so unabhängig wie nie zuvor in der geschichte " 2014 wird ein mieses jahr für sparer : minizins plus inflationshutterstock bahn-aufsichtsrat : " keine kenntnis " über pofalla-postendpawarum noch lange nichts entschieden ist fall pofalla : eu-kommissar oettinger befeuert debatte um sperrzeit für politikergetty " abkühlungsphase von 18 monaten " sei ein gutes modell ostdeutsche sterben schneller an krebs und herzinfarktshutterstock.comsachsen-anhalt ist trauriger spitzenreiter mein brief an die nsashutterstockunser autor versucht , an seine nsa-akte zu kommen - und lernt viel über das online-leben die 10 besten weine des delaire graff estate in südafrika lesen sie artikel , die ihnen möglicherweise gefallen , und schauen sie sich an , was ihre freunde teilen .
wie sahen die denn aus ? 12 weltstars , damals und heuteshutterstock so haben sie mehr vom lebentom and steve via getty images diese 30 werbekampagnen werden sie so schnell nicht vergessendurexein twitter-account hat sie alle sylvie meis hat keine lust mehr auf interviews ... dpa ... vielleicht ist das auch gut so nackt in der waschmaschine - feuerwehr befreit australier mit olivenölshutterstock.com zum geburtstag : ex-basketball-star dennis rodman besucht kim jong un ( video ) shutterstock studie belegt : wer langsam isst , nimmt weniger kalorien aufrafael elias via getty imageslangsamer essen könnte die lösung sein sexsucht , depression , begierde : so kommt von triers film " nymphomaniac " andpa probleme beim einschlafen ?
diese 10 unerwarteten dinge rauben ihnen den schlafgetty images here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php # burundanga is a type of chloroform and is widely used by kratoys and scammers to make one sleep then they rob you .
such a drug can be placed in a drink , an aircon of a taxi car ( using a napkin ) or on the breasts of a thai girl or boy or even on a personal greeting card given to an unwary forerigner or thai as has happened .
once you feel symtoms of dizziness or fainting then chances are something has been doctored .
it has happened in thailand and still being used as at sept 2009 so if you get faint make someone aware of your condition & get away from where you are if the person has befriended you may have administered it to you .
asus brings padfone x to at & t with lte-advanced support and voice over lteengadget - by brad molenasus padfone x to arrive in the us exclusively from at & twall street journalsee all 13 sourcesrelated asus deadline set to register for copan school election sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 23 am est raw : ice festival dazzles in light sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 23 pm est new chapter new opportunities sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 23 am est furever friends in need of funding sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 23 pm est kiowa goes online thu jan 2 , 2014 7 : 23 pm est mlk banquet tickets on sale mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 23 pm est attorney in sex assault case says case it too old sat dec 28 , 2013 5 : 23 pm est the bull-timate sweepstakes !
win free vip tickets to pbr mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 23 am est last monolingual chickasaw speaker dead at 93 fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 23 pm est crooks use internet to change on caller id fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 23 pm est a body was found on a catoosa golf course saturday sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 23 pm est raising cane ’ s hosts job fair for owasso location sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 23 pm est by rob driscoll a lot of folks in the business world go to great lengths to avoid having their children along for a business trip , fearing it would be at best distracting and at worst chaos .
i was part of & hellip ; continue reading & rarr ; calgary web design by media dog productionssilsbee tigers vs. orangefield on the bee deliver any posting to that you do not have a right to make available under law or contractual or fiduciary relationships . ( iii ) identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit clear channel to locate the material . ( v ) a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent , or the law .
une stratégie unique qui englobe pour la première fois l ’ aide humanitaire , la coopération technique et financière , les mesures de politique économique et commerciale et la coopération avec les pays de l ’ est : ce tournant important a été salué aussi bien par le parlement que par l ’ opinion publique , soulignent le directeur de la ddc martin dahinden et marie-gabrielle ineichen-fleisch , secrétaire d ’ etat et directrice du seco , dans le rapport annuel 2012 sur la coopération internationale de la suisse qui vient de sortir de presse .
earth dr reese halter is a broadcaster , biologist , educator and author of the incomparable honeybee .
at the same time , his father had a stroke and was half-paralysed as a result .
do decided to move to vancouver and take care of his father .
with needs to meet and bills to be paid , do got a job at a fedex kinkos store in vancouver .
he worked hard and was able to climb the ladder of his branch , over the course of five years .
“ it was accurate about 90 % of the time … that caught the attention of ebay , and i got my first promotion ” said do .
of that time in his life , do said “ i didn ’ t know exactly what to do , but my father always encouraged us to go back [ to school ] . & # 8221 ; do said that his rational was “ i ’ ll be a doctor , they can ’ t outsource me . ”
“ i ’ ve learned a lot , and i am very thankful for that , it really opened a lot of doors ” he said .
his curiosity encouraged him to order a few nfc tags and a tag writer .
he wanted to try them out .
he continued , “ i felt the potential of all of this and it was just mind-blowing . ”
he was a finalist at hamilton ’ s lions liar , a winner and vitacore dragon ’ s den , second place at the enactus student entrepreneur national competition and the top winner at dx3 .
“ people are captivated by our technology & # 8230 ; i really believe we are on the verge of an nfc explosion , ” he said .
new carpha lab to help region respond to health threats letter : heberprot-p , can we expect it just in time for the next elections ?
carpha and coted agree to tackle obesity in the caribbean pancap highlights reduction in new hiv / aids infections in the caribbean jamaica 's health minister praises paho and who for support to caricom first the snow , now the cold mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 12 am est new indy police mobile unit an office on the go mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 12 am est first the snow , now the cold mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 12 am est would a $ 1 billion-a-year business tax cut boost indiana ’ s economy ?
sat jan 4 , 2014 03 : 12 am est excise tax credit now available for disabled veterans sat jan 4 , 2014 03 : 12 am est weather postpones opening day of legislature sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 12 pm est pence urges hoosiers to stock up ahead of storm sat jan 4 , 2014 3 : 12 pm est man killed in apparent westside home robbery mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 12 am est tracking lawyers ’ efforts to pay it forward ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 12 pm est inquiring minds try to solve iu ’ s puzzle collection sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 12 pm est does ’ warning ’ not to travel really present risk of ticket ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 12 pm est carmel gas station is robbed sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 12 pm est fans converge on downtown indianapolis for two big games sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 12 pm est impd responds to two people shot on king sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 12 pm est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 12 am est celebrating the community and culture of kwanzaa in jeffersonville mon dec 30 , 2013 07 : 12 am est terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 47 am est ex-indiana lawmaker faces charge of soliciting sex fri dec 9 , 2011 01 : 12 am est no school on monday : closings roll in sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 12 pm est ideas for old hall of fame sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 12 am est a novel aspect of the september employment report was that it wasn 't released as usual on the first friday of the month but in the middle of the third week , which , of course , was the result of the delay from the shuttering of the federal government for two-and-a-half weeks of october .
other than that , it was more of the same .
feverish in the run-up to the local elections in november , ali bongo has brought in his half-sister to bolster his pr team . ( ... )
buoyed by his victory over addax , gabon ’ s oil minister etienne ngoubou flew to the united states at the end of september to once again try to persuade some majors to explore in his ( ... )
the french oil firm maurel & prom has appointed a new chief to see to its business ( ... )
the arkansas state football team was treated to a luncheon and tour of the uss ? alabama saturday as part of the activities leading up to sunday 's godaddy bowl .
january 04its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock tickets are on sale at the old gaol for the ever-popular buckingham community panto , but they & # 8217 ; re selling fast .
commissioning group is criticised for ‘ cloak of secrecy ’ surrounding new medical centre for buckingham steeple claydon teenager to appear in royal institution christmas lecture on bbc movilizados más de un millón de pasajeros por terminal la banderael director de transporte y vialidad de la alcaldía de caracas , josé gregorio franquis , informó este lunes que en la temporada navideña el terminal de la bandera ha ... unas 25.000 personas han retornado a caracas por terminal de orienteentre el mediodía del domingo y de este lunes han ingresado a caracas unas 25.000 personas por el terminal de oriente , que recibe viajeros provenientes de los estados ... sistema teleférico warairarepano estará cerrado este martes por labores de mantenimiento el sistema teleférico warairarepano , ubicado en caracas , no prestará servicio al público este martes por labores de mantenimiento movilizados más de un millón de pasajeros por terminal la bandera unas 25.000 personas han retornado a caracas por terminal de oriente sistema teleférico warairarepano estará cerrado este martes por labores de mantenimiento familias caraqueñas salieron este sábado a disfrutar de espacios recuperados por el gobierno nacional , tales como el parque alí primera en el oeste de caracas , parque los caobos en bellas artes y el paseo colón de plaza venezuela concejo municipal de caracas convoca al poder popular a municipalizar plan de la patria la concejala presidenta de la comisión permanente de participación ciudadana y desarrollo humano , yoset brito , destacó que el objetivo " es trabajar de la mano con el poder popular , de las comunas en construcción " habitantes de caracas colmaron el paseo los próceres para compartir en el inicio de 2014 en las inmediaciones de fuerte tiuna en caracas , las familias se acercaron hasta los espacios recuperados del paseo los próceres donde se observaron gustosos al disfrutar de las áreas verdes , parques infantiles , amplias zonas para la caminata , el trote , el descanso y el compartir en paz gobierno bolivariano rehabilitó seis elevados y construyó uno en últimos seis meses en el elevado de los ruices se instalaron más de 370 metros de defensas laterales de seguridad y se colocó la capa de rodamiento y refuerzos estructurales .
de igual forma , se instalaron ojos de gatos , se pintaron las defensas y se hicieron labores de demarcación terminal de oriente espera retorno de 50.000 pasajeros entre domingo y lunes ceo martin flanagan has run invesco since 2005 .
he has streamlined operations , acquired better technology , shed noncore businesses , and bulked up in etfs .
cabello : la oposición , como siempre , no le hace ninguna propuesta al país el presidente de la asamblea nacional manifestó este domingo durante el inicio de sesiones del parlamento para el periodo 2014-2015 que la derecha venezolana volvió a ... arreaza : a voceros de oposición les dolió la publicación de sus destinos navideñosel vicepresidente de la república bolivariana de venezuela , jorge arreaza , manifestó este domingo que a los voceros de oposición les dolió la publicación de sus destinos ... gobernador de miranda gastó $ 20.000 en vuelo privado a arubael gobernador del estado miranda , henrique capriles , gast & oacute ; 20.000 d & oacute ; lares en un vuelo privado para trasladarse a aruba .
cabello : la oposición , como siempre , no le hace ninguna propuesta al país arreaza : a voceros de oposición les dolió la publicación de sus destinos navideños gobernador de miranda gastó $ 20.000 en vuelo privado a aruba comuneros de barinas denuncian agresiones por parte del alcalde de derecha ronald aguilar voceros de las comunas simón bolívar y ezequiel zamora , ubicadas en el municipio antonio josé de sucre del estado barinas , denunciaron que el pasado 22 de diciembre el alcalde de derecha ronald aguilar y sus concejales , trataron de impedir que se realizaran varios procesos electorales tsj declara inadmisible acción de amparo interpuesta por julio borges la demanda fue distribuida al juzgado quinto de primera instancia municipal en funciones de control del referido circuito , que indicó que existe un conflicto de competencia ante la sala plena , ya que esa instancia resultaría el juez natural por tratarse de una acción contra un parlamentario suplente leopoldo puchi : en la mud las derrotas de la derecha son huérfanas en su columna enfoque , publicada este jueves en el diario últimas noticias , expresó que " en la oposición ya nadie se acuerda de que la línea del plebiscito era común a todos los partidos de la mud " aurora morales : capriles se burla del consejo legislativo de miranda “ capriles ha hecho una burla del consejo legislativo ” , sostuvo la presidenta del consejo legislativo de miranda , quien acotó que el gobernador tiene el deber de buscar las soluciones para el pueblo de miranda y no sólo la confrontación derecha no postuló candidatos para conformar directiva de la asamblea nacional 2014 diputado serra insta a la derecha a asumir su responsabilidad política por viajes al exterior math scores inched up by one point on a scale of zero to 500 for fourth- and eighth-graders since 2011 . the gap between white and hispanic students narrowed in at least one subject and grade in 10 states .
the white-hispanic gap grew in one subject and grade in maryland , michigan and tennessee .
i am a bit embarrassed to say that i have had more than one person ask why i still use the pew card .
after all , it has been two years ! my associate pastor has only been a priest since the new translation .
for all the young whippersnappers , the new translation is a piece of cake , but for old dogs like me , the translation has not come as easily , and it tends to be the small changes that mess me up at times.and since we priests are the ones who lead the prayers , generally we pray the loudest , and if we mess up , then the first 10 rows are going to mess up , too .
so , i use the pew card , and i think i will be using it for some time to come.remedial prayer lessonsince we are now two years into the new translation , it might not be a bad idea to do a little review of some of the changes .
i have noticed in my own parishes , as well as others , that some things are inadvertently being left out .
here are just a few examples worth revisiting.at the beginning of the mass we have the confiteor , which is the prayer asking god to forgive our sins .
there are three options with this part of the mass , the longest being the actual prayer itself .
when we say the words , & ldquo ; through my fault , through my fault , through my most grievous fault , & rdquo ; we should strike our breast , an ancient symbol of repentance , either one or three times .
this is one of those new / old additions that often seems to be forgotten.after the homily , we pray together the profession of faith .
in that prayer , we are to give a slight bow during the words , & ldquo ; ... and by the holy spirit was incarnate of the virgin mary , and became man . & rdquo ; we bow during those words , because it is the precise moment in which god became man to save us from our sins .
bowing is a sign of reverence for this single most important event , which we are professing to be true.when to bowprevious to the new translation was the slight bow prior to receiving communion .
i am afraid over the years many have let this important action slide .
a slight bow towards the eucharist , while the person in line ahead of you is receiving communion , is significant , because you are bowing to god himself in homage.sometimes people will genuflect at this time .
although i know it is with good intentions , it ’ s not always the best way to give honor to god because of the practical reason of possibly tripping .
now in saying that , if genuflecting is the general practice of your parish , then that is fine , but if you are one of only a few who do it , you may want to re-think the practice .
you may catch an unsuspecting person behind you off guard , which could end in a spill.finally , though not part of any of the changes , it is still worth revisiting what we do after we have received communion.it is most appropriate to go back to your pew ( not your car ) and kneel for a few moments of prayer , thanking god for the gift of his son given to us in the eucharist.but when should you sit down ? in my experience the overriding majority of people sit down after the priest or deacon sit down .
i propose that it is not the proper time to be seated .
the guest of honor at mass is jesus christ , not the priest and deacon .
the proper time to be seated is after the eucharist has been reposed into the tabernacle .
even if the priest or deacon is still purifying the sacred vessels , it is appropriate to sit down as long as christ has been brought back to the tabernacle.it ’ s about christcohesion and uniformity are important in the mass , because we are all praying as one body , the body of christ .
when we do things differently than the rest of the congregation , we draw attention to ourselves when it is only christ to whom we should give attention.every word and every action in the mass are precise in their theological meaning and symbolism , which is why we should always be as attentive as possible to what would otherwise seem to be the minor changes of the new translation.and don ’ t be bothered by your little older pastor still using his pew card ! father richard kunst is pastor of st. john the evangelist in duluth and st. joseph in gnesen .
reach him at rbkunst @ q.com. diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota if only comments are received on the application , the response to comments , along with notice of the executive director ’ s action on the application , will be mailed to everyone who submitted comments or is on the mailing list for this application . • invalid entry : please type the verification code again . alimentos de pueblo , tradicionales y artesanos | tienda online for its ski boats , water sports like fishing with all night bars and nightlife and the odd scam or 2. million tourists visiting a year--loads of self loaders and a few of the old retirees .
even the nice looking graphic artist depictions , one cannot resist the temptation to get in first and buy a condo right on the pattaya beach with a name that has hit the record books , and this breathtaking highrise was to be the mega darling of pattaya .
well it seems as at august 2009 theres no condo complex on schedule and the beach remains the same with waves flashing and waiting for the next project to happen .
[ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya free wifi wireless hotels ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] iran news headlines " in 90-91 , we didn ’ t know what we had except that it had to be entirely new because it was the first dinosaur , ” said hammer , who returned to the beardmore region for a third time with his largest team to date in an effort to recover as much of the meat-eating dinosaur as possible .
among the new discoveries is the partial skeleton of an ornithischian , or bird-hipped dinosaur , found under an overhang near the cryolophosaurus quarry by roger smith in the waning days of the field season .
that ’ s in contrast to the early jurassic , when the world ’ s landmasses were sealed together in the supercontinent called pangaea .
" the world was a biogeographic superhighway , ” makovicky said , explaining that an animal could literally traverse from one end of the world to the other .
the big question : did they ?
cryolophosaurus ’ closest relatives to date lived in what is modern-day united states and china .
in the pangaea configuration , they would have been at the far corners of the supercontinent from antarctica .
" we ’ re trying to do the whole mesozoic as much as we can , ” said hammer , referring to an era nearly 200 million years long , sandwiched between two mass extinctions , and loosely known as the age of dinosaurs .
" it ’ s simply two different environments ; that is the reason why you can find so much in the triassic and so little in the lower jurassic , ” koppelhus said .
the cold and altitude are tough on people and equipment .
makovicky said he lost a half-day on the mountain trying to get the jackhammer to start in the extreme cold .
he had to use the exhaust from a generator to warm it up .
" you ’ re thinking in ways that you ’ re not used to when you do fieldwork anywhere else , ” he said .
it ’ s a mindset familiar to hammer , who has made eight trips to antarctica since the 1970s .
the 61-year-old paleontologist mused it could be his last visit , at least to the beardmore region. see when websites have added new content .
you can get the latest headlines and video in one place , as soon as its published , without let you store them on your main computer , in the same way that you the site offers rss feeds .
click the icon to see the feed and , if once you have chosen a news reader , all you have to do is to if you click on the rss button you can subscribe to the feed in news reader or by cutting and pasting the same url into a new feed automatically check for feeds for you when you visit a * * * president ilham aliyev and president of dagestan ramazan abdulatipov have joint dinner * * * president ilham aliyev receives delegation led by president of dagestan ramazan abdulatipov congratulatory message of president ilham aliyev to the people of azerbaijan on the occasion of the world azerbaijanis solidarity day and the new year video azerbaijan 's farid hasanov wins turkvision song contestunesco grants icherisheher “ enhanced protection ” status ada to host conference on mind , society and transformative education 28.12.2013 [ 20 : 50 ] a concert dedicated to the solidarity day of world azerbaijanis has been held in “ farida plaza ” in vinnitsa , the city of ukraine .
34th meeting of commission on aquatic bio resources of caspian sea kicks off in astrakhan if you dream of redeveloping or extending a property , than manderley may be the ideal place.set in a semi-rural location about a mile from ...
quaranta named team manager of the side as mnonda magan and the squad is expected back in the country on january 20 .
quaranta was the head coach of the national women ’ s team .
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificmiddle eastmiddle eastpersian gulf statesbahrainiraniraqisraeljordankuwaitlebanonomanpalestineqatarsaudi arabiasyriaunited arab emiratesyemenkuwaitoilsport © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedpremiul academiei pentru dr. virginia mircea | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți premiul academiei pentru dr. virginia mircea « previousstatele unite ale europei & # 8211 ; soluția pentru criza euro © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresswatch : hockey fan video bomb fail © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedairline offices in thailand a line of hundreds of protesters snaked through the departures area at the international airport as they got autographs from chamlong and his pad co-founder sondhi limthongkul .
internation airport 99 village no.3 , sanambin panij rd . , klong hoi khong thani internation airport 1fl .
tumbun nadee , amphor muang , udon thani , [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ suvarnabumi airport touts beware ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți împotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu pornind de la ideia ca pentru a cerceta explozia unei stele trebuie sa cercetezi mai intai ce a fost inaintea exploziei cat si ceea ce a fost dupa , am cercetat evenimentele istorice din romania din decembrie 1989 in con – text european si mondial , de la inceputurile razboiului rece impotriva urss promovat de harry truman presedintele sua la sfarsitul celui de al ii-lea razboi mondial ( 1945 ) si pana la razboiul preventiv al lui g.w. bush presedintele sua sustinut de anglia impotriva irakului din martie 2003 .
analiza multiplelor fatete ale evenimentelor din decembrie 1989 din romania , reflectate de multitudinea diversitatii domeniilor cercetate din punct de vedere economic , politic , social , filosofic , antropologic , istoric , sociologic , psihologic si de aparare nationala si a progresului mondial , demonstreaza ca acele evenimente au fost denumite in mod fals revolutii si ca in realitate , impotriva tarilor socialiste din europa de est , tarile capitaliste dezvoltate din vest si sua au desfasurat un razboi secret , cu sprijin tradator autohton , din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate . pe baza acestei analize si a cercetarii complexe a datelor si faptelor am ajuns la concluzia care ne infatiseaza un tablou unic al distrugerii socialismului european .
in studiu se dezvaluie ca distrugerea socialismului european s-a realizat , intr-o prima etapa , pe calea razboiului secret , caruia i s-a dat falsul nume de revolutie . doua sunt motivele pentru care specialistii in arta razboiului modern si politicienii care au acaparat puterea in stat , au denumit in mod fals razboiul secret prin cuvantul de revolutie . in primul rand termenul de revolutie este un concept cu profunde rezonante pozitive in memoria colectivitatilor umane , semnificand , in conditiile existentei unei contradictii antagonice in societate , actiunea celor de jos in beneficiul maselorlargi populare . in al doilea rand , sub termenul de revolutie se ascunde actiunea vicleana , ofensiva globala , a occidentului si sua impotriva socialismului european devenit concurent in plan politic , economic si social in punctul maxim al crizei economice a capitalismului mondial din anii 1970 , pentru a induce in eroare opinia publica din fostele tari socialiste pentru a nu riposta si pentru a pune la adapost mitul americii si al occidentului de dispretul si dezaprobarea opiniei publice internationale fata de razboiul secret din 1989-1991 impotriva europei socialiste si a urss .
ascunzandu-se adevarul despre esenta evenimentelor din 1989 sub continua manipulare economica si politica a opiniei publice , in romania , in mod oficial , circula trei termeni despre revolutie : revolutia sangeroasa din romania , revolutia mai putin sangeroasa din fosta uniune sovietica si revolutia de catifea din celelalte tari foste socialiste din europa .
in acest context , ideia centrala a studiului este ca evenimentele din 1989-1991 din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste inclusiv urss , nu pot fi numite revolutii , nici prin continut , nici prin intentie , nici prin urmari si deci nici prin utilitate . in plus , in lucrare am prezentat analize si opinii ale unor oameni de cea mai inalta valoare profesionala din tara si strainatate care , distingand adevarul de fals , n-au ezitat sa recunoasca ideia de neverosimilitate a revolutiei din romania si din celelalte tari foste socialiste si au demonstrat caracterul planificat al acestor evenimente – fara sa le denumeasca in vreun fel & # 8211 ; impotriva statelor socialiste din europa . in consecinta , in lucrare , demonstrez punctul meu de vedere , unic pana acum exprimat public , despre acele evenimente pe care le numesc razboi secret global si ale caror necunoscute si semne de intrebare contorsioneaza inca memoria poporului roman in special si pune in dilema si confuzie in general constiintele nationale nu doar ale popoarelor din fostele tari socialiste , dar si a celorlalte popoare in lupta lor pentru o viata mai buna si mai dreapta , pentru progres social si pentru pace .
pe baza cunostintelor noi rezultate din datele evenimentelor din 1989-1991 din romania , din celelalte tari foste socialiste si din urss , am apreciat ca aceste evenimente au fost o agresiune externa a occidentului si sua , cu sprijin autohton tradator , desfasurata sub forma razboiului secret , ca o actiune ofensiva globala impotriva oranduirii socialiste din europa . razboiul fiind secret , precum un atac terorist , nu putea fi adus la cunostinta popoarelor socialiste europene transformate in tinte in teatrul operatiunilor de razboi secret . continutul razboiului secret din 1989-1991 este pus in evidenta in paginile lucrarii prin formele concrete de lupta identificate , sub care au avut loc in romania si in celelalte tari foste socialiste . formele de lupta identificate in acest razboi secret sunt : consilierea politica , finantarea organizatiilor politice , operatiuni economice , pregatirea cadrelor , operatiuni politice sau paramilitare insurgente destinate loviturilor de stat , razboiul informational , razboiul radioelectronic , razboiul psihologic si razboiul cu foc armat – terorist .
in lumina acestor realitati a aparut si mai pregnant necesitatea de a evidentia ca originea razboiului secret se gaseste in doctrina americana a razboiului rece pus in opera de catre presedintele sua harry truman ( ajuns presedinte prin hazard in urma mortii lui franklin delano roosvelt ) impotriva tanarului stat socialist urss , aliatul de pana mai ieri in al ii-lea razboi mondial . ulterior doctrina razboilui rece a fost extinsa si asupra celorlalte state care pornisera pe calea socialista de dezvoltare .
prin razboiul rece , numit de serviciile speciale secrete ale sua si razboiul ideologiilor , truman a facut ( dupa al doilea razboi mondial ) o neta demarcatie intre ideologii , impartind mai intai germania in germania de est si germania de vest , si apoi impartind intreaga lume dupa modelul german , in estul socialist si vestul capitalist . acest moment a marcat in-ceputul unei epoci de tensiune intre capitalismul invechit si socialismul aparut ca o noua oranduire , moderna .
in lucrare se precizeaza faptul ca in anii de inceput ai razboiului secret - pe fundalul razboiului rece - deci imediat dupa al ii-lea razboi mondial , ostilitatile impotriva tarilor socialiste aveau un caracter disparat si necoordonat . odata cu izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului din jurul anilor 1970 , ostilitatile razboiului secret impotriva socialismului au capatat un caracter ofensiv global , programat , planificat pe etape si coordonat de catre presedintii sua , procedandu-se la o repartizare a principalelor tari capitaliste membre nato pe grupe de tari socialiste din europa , in vederea impulsionarii si grabirii exploziilor razboiului secret , carora li s-au dat falsul nume de revolutii .
exploziile in lant ale razboiului secret numite de dusmanii socialismului “ prabusirea socialismului “ dupa principiul dominoului , au avut loc pe baza unui plan al razboiului secret , in conditiile in care pe plan mondial s-au conturat doua fenomene esentiale : 1 . pe masura dezvoltarii capitalismului , contradictia fundamentala , antagonica a acestui sistem , se ascute . in jurul anilor 1970 democratia occidentala se confrunta cu o grava criza . contradictia dintre caracterul social al productiei si caracterul privat-capitalist al insusirii rezultatelor ei ajunsese la stadiul maxim de ascutire , determinand izbucnirea celei de a doua mari crize economice a capitalismului . contradictia fundamentala ce caracterizeaza sistemul capitalist , de la aparitie pana la disparitie , determina toate celelalte contradictii ale capitalismului . pe plan social se exprima prin contradictia antagonista dintre principalele clase sociale din societatea capitalista , burghezie si proletariat . dupa 1970 , in contextul ascutirii ansamblului contradictiilor antagoniste , in sistemul mondial capitalist , democratiile occidentale au inceput sa se confrunte cu o agravare a discriminarilor sociale , cu declinul general al economiei si cu inflatia , toate acestea provocand o criza de sistem a civilizatiei occidentale . contestarea globala a capitalismului se facea din ce in ce mai mult auzita si o multitudine de conflicte intre categoriile socio-profesionale din tarile capitaliste dezvoltate se agravau . evident , acestea s-ar fi putut rezolva pe calea luptei de clasa care culmineaza cu revolutia sociala . este tocmai ceeace capitalistii au dorit si au reusit sa evite , prin punerea la cale a razboiului secret impotriva socialismului .
2 . in acelasi timp democratiile socialiste , rezultate din forma de organizare sociala si economica a societatii intemeiata pe proprietatea socialista ( obsteasca ) asupra mijloacelor de productie , societate libera de orice forma de exploatare , au creat conditii pentru acea dezvoltare legica , de la inferior la superior , umanizand relatiile sociale . in acest context , in timp ce democratiile occidentale se aflau intr-o stare alarmanta de deruta determinata de cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , democratiile socialiste , in comparatie cu democratiile occidentale , obtinusera intr-un timp istoric scurt remarcabile succese economice si sociale , impunandu-se ca un sistem economic si politic pe plan mondial . socialismul devenise in acea perioada pentru occident nu numai un concurent economic si politic dar si o reala alternativa pentru tarile lumii a 3-a si chiar pentru tarile capitaliste dezvoltate pentru rezolvarea gravelor probleme sociale ale societatii capitaliste .
noua situatie economica , sociala si politica pe plan mondial a determinat lumea capitalista occidentala sa treaca – sub patronajul washingtonului - la un proces programat si controlat , pentru a putea conduce lumea in functie de interesele vitale ale marilor trusturi nationale si multinationale capitaliste . in acest scop a fost pus la punct un plan de razboi secret impotriva socialismului . acest plan secret a fost aprobat de sua si de tarile capitaliste dezvoltate membre ale nato si a fost pus in opera , din toamna anului 1973 , de catre serviciile secrete din aceste tari . la acest plan s-a lucrat timp indelungat , chiar din interiorul tarilor socialiste vizate , cu rabdarea care este specifica serviciilor secrete , pentru a pregati in cele mai mici amanunte momentele critice explozive din 1989-1991 , din tarile socialiste ale europei .
analizele si cercetarile efectuate asupra faptelor si documentelor au relevat ca planul razboiului secret , gandit ca o solutie de atenuare si de iesire din cea de a doua mare criza a capitalismului , a cuprins pana in acest moment doua etape . prima etapa a razboiului secret s-a consumat si s-a finalizat cu ceea ce s-a numit fals revolutie . scopul primei etape a razboiului secret a fost schimbarea regimului politic din tarile socialiste si impunerea din exterior a unor regimuri politice nedenumite cu claritate la vremea respectiva de oficialii autohtoni daca este vorba de regim politic capitalist , socialist sau mixt . dupa metamorfoza politica neexplicata opiniei publice , a urmat imediat cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret numita fals tranzitie .
scopul celei de a doua etape a razboiului secret este distrugerea sistemului economic socialist , distrugerea puterii economice a societatilor socialiste europene , a marei industrii si a cercetarii si impunerea unei economii inapoiate care sa fie dependenta de centru , convenabile puterilor occidentale si sua . cu toate ca cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret constituie obiectul de cercetare al celui de al doilea volum la care lucrez in prezent , aceasta tema trebuie adusa la cunostinta aici intrucat altfel nu poate fi obtinuta o perspectiva corecta , de ansamblu , asupra razboiului secret care se desfasoara in mai multe etape .
lucrarea dezvaluie , in cazul romaniei , ca asa-zisa revolutie a reprezentat prima etapa a razboiului secret , cand “ emanatii ” decembristi s-au autoconstituit la data de 22 dec.1989 in consiliul frontului salvarii nationale , au acaparat puterea in stat si au abdicat de la suveranitatea politica a tarii , moment marcat anterior ( la 19 dec.1989 la timisoara ) , prin decuparea stemei republicii socialiste romania din drapelul de stat si arborarea acestuia in locuri publice , in starea pangarita descrisa . in cea de a doua etapa a razboiului secret , numita fals tranzitie , are loc abdicarea treptata de la suveranitatea economica a tarii , romania actionand cu docili- tate , impotriva intereselor nationale , la ordinile primite din afara , din partea organismelor internationale financiare , economice , politice si militare , care se gasesc sub controlul washingtonului .
in studiul din volumul 1 exista un capitol special pentru generalul ion mihai pacepa , fost consilier al presedintelui romaniei nicolae ceausescu , care avea acces la documentele informative secrete ale romaniei si care a fost dovedit ca era agent cia . mai sunt prezentati si alti tradatori romani .
in ceea ce priveste uniunea europeana , studiul din volumul 1 dezvaluie ca romania nu a fost antrenata in fosta c.e.e. ( comunitatea economica europeana ) atunci cand inregistra un nivel superior de dezvoltare fata de nivelul tarilor in curs de dezvoltare , atunci cand indicatorul de dezvoltare umana ( i.d.u. ) il depasea pe cel din multe tari capitaliste desi acestea aveau un pib pe cap de locuitor mai mare decat cel din romania .
deci romania nu a fost chemata sa adere la c.e.e. atunci cand se situa in mod practic , la toti indicatorii sociali , ( invatamant gratuit , cultura , asistenta medicala gratuita , locuinte , concedii de odihna si tratament in statiuni , pensii decente , lipsa somajului , lipsa inflatiei , etc . ) la nivelul tarilor dezvoltate iar in unele cazuri romania se situa chiar mai bine , cum ar fi de exemplu asigurarea cu locuri de munca , inexistenta in cee .
uniunea europeana i-a propus romaniei sa adere numai dupa ce aceasta a acceptat printr-o negociere pactada , prin emanatii falselor revolutii metamorfoza politic adusa de viclenia razboiului secret din dec1989 .
atunci scenariul “ europei unite si intregite ” , rezultat al razboiului secret , a aruncat societatea socialista si oamenii ei inapoi pe scara istoriei , sfidand si umilind natiuni si state numai pentru ca erau socialiste . omul a fost scos din schema temporalitatii lumii . valorile perene ale societatii socialiste , umanismul , solidaritatea si pacea , au fost eliminate .
studiul volumului 1 critica modalitatea constructiei uniunii europene si face precizarea ca timothy garton ash , cercetator in domeniul istoriei contemporane la institutul hoover din marea britanie , in cartea sa “ istoria prezentului ” afirma ca “ 1992 din europa de vest este cauza lui 1989 din europa de est “ ceea ce il determina sa sintetizeze aceasta anomalie prin formularea “ dispret aparent fata de logica istoriei “ . el surprinde astfel esenta unui act dus impotriva istoriei , care a fost contorsionata prin falsele revolutii din 1989 . intr-adevar , ce altceva poate sa exprime metamorfozele politice si economice petrecute in fostele tari socialiste din europa de est , stiut fiind ca timpul , inclusiv timpul istoric , descrie mersul inainte al evenimentului , al societatii si nu invers , precum a constatat si istoricul englez timothy garton ash .
in cazul romaniei , prin acest scenariu al europei unite si prin razboiul secret , au fost afectate punctele fixe de certitudine : armata a fost incalecata iar sistemul politic si baza tehnico-materiala , care dadeau tarii forta si puterea de a asigura un inalt nivel de emancipare la nivelul maselor , au fost distruse . chiar si memoria colectiva a inceput sa fie distrusa .
scenariul europei unite avea deci in vedere mai intai distrugerea natiunilor socialiste si numai dupa aceasta distrugere realizarea europei unite ceea ce este o barbarie in aceasta etapa de explozie a stiintei si teh- nologiei , cand factorul cunoastere , sub multiplele sale manifestari , influ- enteaza in mod hotarator dinamica oricarei tari , dezvoltata sau mai putin dezvoltata . in felul acesta au fost inlocuite procesele noi ale societatii soci aliste din europa purtatoare de o viata mai buna si mai dreapta de progres si pace , cu procese vechi , liberale , perimate , dar profitabile numai pentru un mic grup al societatii si iesite , in parte , din istoria contemporana a lumii .
lucrarea dezvaluie ca la 3 dec.1989 , la malta , bush-tatal si gorbaciov , nu au facut altceva decat sa concretizeze , departe de presa si de ochii lumii , actul final al distrugerii socialismului si al oamenilor sai , la care s-a lucrat din umbra pentru realizarea unei europe “ intregite ” si “ unificate ” . la malta , gorbaciov a ridicat , cu buna stiinta , drapelul alb in favoarea lui bush-tatal care dorea unificarea europei dar intr-o forma dezavantajoasa , pentru a slabi natiunile europene si de preferinta impotriva rusiei , pentru ca indiferent de natura regimului politic de la kremlin , tarist , comunist sau capitalist , rusia a fost , este si va fi , cel mai mare obstacol pentru ambitiile washingtonului de a domina lumea .
pentru romania si pentru celelalte foste tari socialiste uniunea europeana nu a adus nimic bun in problema fundamentala a societatii care este calitatea vietii .
un capitol important din carte este rezervat razboiului preventiv , varful de lance al razboiului rece . este criticat atat razboiul preventiv cat si sindromul american de superputere care are principiul declarat : “ noi bombardam pe cine vrem si cand vrem “ .
volumul 1 al studiului “ impotriva manipularii ” si-a propus sa fie o cercetare stiintifica a evenimentelor anului 1989 din europa . in acelasi timp aceasta lucrare identifica si dezvaluie diversitatea tehnicilor si mijloacelor de manipulare utilizate in timpul evenimentelor din dec.1989 in romania , care , neexaminate intr-un spirit stiintific si critic si nesanctionate la timpul lor , s-au transformat in perioada asa-zisei tranzitiei intr-o forma perfida de exploatare .
studiul pune in lumina dreptul si datoria fiecarui cetatean de a se apara impotriva manipularii , care este o noua forma de exploatare la sfarsitul secolului 20 si inceputul secolului 21 .
singura arma impotriva manipularii exploatatoare este manifestarea de catre toti cetatenii a unei constiinte libere si active .
tags : împotriva manipulării , nina georgescu , războiul secret din anul 1989 , vitrina cu cărți © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress collections and a recovering economy , according to a new report .
the increases are fueling debate in the states about how to handle the windfalls .
in california , state lawmakers are debating what to do with their $ 4.5 billion more in revenue , which has led to a re-estimation of the california , the rest of the nation showed growth of an average of a 9 percent in “ on one hand , we have slowly improving revenues , and on the gap between revenues and expenditures , which in the long run would not be container full of elephant tusks seized in dar na david kisanga sources who preferred not to be mentioned told the guardian that the container was set to be shipped to china . & ldquo ; we impounded the tusks in a container that was to be shipped .
however i am not on a position to give details , & rdquo ; kipande , said urging reporters to seek clarification from the minister .
the tico times , a weekly english-language newspaper in costa rica , reported rutkiewicz was sitting outside the kokomo bar on dec .
21 when he was shot around 3 : 30 a.m.
he drove to another bar and bled to death waiting for an ambulance to arrive , a bouncer at the bar told the newspaper . [ ... ]
hoffler faced an upcoming drug trial in albany ; drabik was to be the prosecution 's star witness .
the mid ... ( 1 / 3 / 2014 8 : 41 : 01 am ) but the site has its critics .
unlike the one in massachusetts , the utah exchange — now called avenue h — does not vet insurance policies or negotiate for the lowest prices .
built in 2009 , the website was designed to let all insurance carriers offer their policies to small businesses as a way to promote competition . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedcover story | cadran politic există mai multe forme de a lua țeapă în imobiliare .
fie apartamentul pe care îl cumperi la stadiu de proiect nu se mai realizează și poți pune cruce banilor , fie dezvoltatorul nu-și ține promisiunile … desantul chinei la fruntariile europei – spaime ideologice și opțiuni pragmatice timp de câteva zile atenția mass-mediei de la bucurești s-a îndreptat masiv și spre altceva decât spre uzualele ciondăneli între „ coabitanții ” de conveniență aciuați prin diversele palate din capitala româniei .
e drept că atâția înalți oficiali străini la un loc nu au mai fost în românia de la summitul nato din 2008 .
iar dacă atunci oficialul care și-a adjudecat cel mai important ...
asocierea ucrainei la ue : o pauză tactică , sau una strategică ?
decizia ucrainei de a suspenda pregătirile pentru semnarea acordului de asociere la uniunea europeană , care era prevăzută la summitul parteneriatului estic de la sfârșitul lunii noiembrie , a stârnit perplexitate și chiar îngrijorări .
pe alocuri proteste și chiar furie . aproximativ 2.000 de susţinători ai integrării ucrainei în ue au ieşit în stradă la kiev , imediat după anunțarea ...
cred că în cazul lui traian băsescu mai potrivit ar fi însă termenul de „ batista pe țambal ” .
cazul papici reprezintă ieșirea oficială din scenă a lui traian băsescu în calitate de om politic relevant .
eșecul mișcării populare mai putea fi estompat , însă eșecul „ puciului ” e mai greu de digerat .
și ce frumos începuseră toate … „ rup pactul ” , tăpălagă face spume , „ acoperiții ” ...
mai avem puțin și rămân doar 12 luni până la debutul campaniei electorale pentru alegerile prezidențiale , dar în momentul de față avem un singur candidat sigur : crin antonescu .
să vedem potențialii contracandidați și șansele lor în ordinea probabilității candidaturii : infrastructură , telecomunicaţii , energie , dar şi schimburi culturale .
acestea au fost domeniile cheie care au fost ţintite de oficialii de la bucureşti cu ocazia a ceea ce ar putea fi numit un adevărat desant asupra chinei .
terenul a fost pregătit în primăvară , de constantin niţă , ministrul delegat pentru energie , pentru ca , recent , o întreagă delegaţie guvernamentală , condusă de premierul ...
discursul preşedintelui emil constantinescu la reuniunea la vârf a iniţiativei levant pentru pace globală , , la sediul naţiunilor unite , în perioada 24-25 iunie a.c odată cu intrarea în vigoare a tratatului de la lisabona în 1 decembrie 2009 , au intervenit schimbări în arhitectura instituţională a uniunii europene , cu impact asupra proceselor decizionale în sferă politico-legislativă .
este însă neclar deocamdată în ce măsură această reaşezare este definitivă , semnificativă , oportună ori eficace .
noul guvern al româniei a readus în discuţie tema alegerilor regionale şi descentralizarea ţării , în special pentru o mai bună absorbţie a fondurilor europene , dar nu numai .
să ne amintim că şi acum câţiva ani , când se discuta despre posibilităţi asupra modului de alegere a parlamentarilor europeni în românia , vasile puşcaş propunea chiar alegeri pe circumscripţii regionale .
odată cu formarea guvernului ponta se pune punct oficial epocii traian băsescu .
chiar dacă preşedintele rămâne în politică , rolul său va fi unul marginal , aşa cum a fost al lui ion iliescu după 2004 .
deşi unii ( inclusiv preşedintele băsescu ) au încercat să-i atribuie un rol mai important , influenţa lui ion iliescu asupra psd a fost minoră după “ noapta cuţitelor lungi ” când ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress burundi | reliefweb plan de réponse stratégique pour la république démocratique du congo 2014 l & # 039 ; afrique et le moyen-orient ont dominé les activités du conseil de sécurité en 2008 renforcer la protection de la population civile et améliorer l ’ accès aux vivres , aux biens et services de base dans les zones affectées par les violences et les conflits armés contribuer à réduire la morbidité et la mortalité dues à la malnutrition aigüe dans les zones en crise nutritionnelle contribuer à réduire la morbidité et la mortalité excessives au sein des populations touchées par les épidémies burundi le projet de modification de la constitution du burundi soulève des inquiétudes bujumbura , 22 décembre 2013 ( irin ) - le projet du gouvernement burundais de réviser la constitution agite le monde politique , dans un pays qui s 'efforce de surmonter les conséquences d 'une guerre civile qui a fait rage de 1993 à 2005 .
une sélection d 'articles d 'irin sont publiés sur reliefweb .
trouvez d 'autres articles et analyses d 'irin sur http : / / www.irinnews.org cet article ne reflète pas nécessairement les vues des nations unies .
voir irin droits d 'auteur pour les conditions d 'utilisation .
vers l 'organisation effective d 'un retour volontaire des réfugiés burundais en ouganda héritier et sefu , un couple de couturiers qui gagnent bien leur vie dans un camp de réfugiés la vérification des demandeurs d ’ asile en milieu urbain qui a débuté le 28 octobre a pris fin le 29 novembre 2013 .
le chiffre des demandeurs d ’ asile urbains vérifiés est de 983 familles de 3 764 personnes , soit une diminution de 40 % .
burundi burundi - système de suivi de la sécurité alimentaire , novembre 2013 la situation de sécurité alimentaire reste toujours fragile et à risque de dégradation aux moindres chocs ( aléas climatiques et autres ) .
en octobre 2013 , la moitié ( 51 % ) des ménages enquêtés se trouvait en situation de sécurité alimentaire avec une consommation alimentaire acceptable , tandis que 39 % ont une consommation limite et 10 % ont une consommation pauvre ( contre 5 % en avril 2013 ) .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other la rdc et le burundi s ’ engagent de nouveau à neutraliser les rebelles du fnl la république démocratique du congo et le burundi se sont engagés de nouveau à neutraliser les forces négatives dont les rebelles du front national pour la libération du burundi ( fnl ) qui font des incursions en rdc .
c ’ est ce qui ressort du communiqué qui a sanctionné la réunion tripartite entre ces deux pays et le haut-commissariat des nations unies pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) qui s ’ est clôturée mardi 10 décembre à kinshasa .
kasn public filefishing and seawater deep sea fishing at pattaya , thailand is a direct bus from the arcade bus station : nachonchai air .
this is an or take a train from pattaya to bangkok then hop on the overnight to you want to retreat to pattaya good fishing abounds everywhere in safe up to 300kg .
also found are yellowfin tuna ( 20kg ) , wahoo ( 40kg ) and ripleys believe it or not or wind surfing or boating plus the many animal [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] a good education policy and amendment of laws on education , cannot mean anything if teachers ’ grievances are not addressed .
mkoba said it was unfortunate that the government had come up with the big results now ( brn ) policy without addressing teachers ’ grievances .
he said as a result the brn cannot succeed if teachers ’ concerns are not addressed .
eight or ten blizzards a year are not uncommon to coastal areas , and they bring any human outdoor activity to a standstill .
home vitrina cu cărți noua dimensiune a terorismului international & # 8211 ; virginia mircea maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile nomazilor însoţite de jafuri şi abuzuri săvârşite periodic , cu câteva mii de ani înainte de hristos , mijloace de intimidare a populaţiilor agricole paşnice ?
atât războaiele , cât şi teroarea ca forme de violenţă organizată au adunat doctorii politologi la capul bolnavului să-i explice boala şi să-i caute remediul .
teorii peste teorii şi volume peste volume s-au adunat în biblioteci şi arhive vaste transformând literatura asupra subiectului într-o regiune greu penetrabilă .
de aceea văd în volumul scris de dr .
virginia mircea un act aproape temerar .
a face ordine în ideile şi scrierile asupra subiectului e ca şi a curăţa spaţiile lui augias .
şi totuşi , un rezultat remarcabil a fost înregistrat .
autoarea , care şi-a atestat capacitatea de a controla surse documentare vaste , în cartea sa despre islam ( „ islamul şi soarta lumii – fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” , 2009 – n.a. ) reuşeşte şi de data aceasta să pună ordine în datele , teoriile şi soluţiile posibile ale temei terorismului .
repertoriul parcurs este de-a dreptul impresionant .
la cele aproape 200 de trimiteri la surse sunt adăugate peste 100 de pagini de anexe documentare .
ordinea şi clarificarea introduse în acest vast teritoriu este un merit al cărţii , care nu face decât să ne pregătească pentru o analiză riguroasă , introdusă cu tact şi măsură .
dacă nu ar fi decât o mărturie a spiritului ştiinţific , ar fi destul să descurajeze amatorismul şi improvizarea caracteristice la numeroase studii de ştiinţe politice .
capitolul definiţiilor , bogat în citarea diferitelor soluţii date , este util pentru clarificări conceptuale pregătitoare .
astfel se distinge între internaţional şi transnaţional .
ultima noţiune vizează acţiuni în mai multe ţări , în timp ce statele au un sistem internaţional .
înţelegem de ce terorismul transcende cetăţenia actorilor .
culege adepţi indiferent de mediul naţional din care provin .
în privinţa unei definiţii , conduce încet , dar sigur spre tema care câştigă teren .
terorismul este violenţă folosită în scop politic , nu este război , deşi are tangenţe cu el .
lucrează subteran , clandestin , camuflat .
în capitolul „ şcoli de gândire ” apar mai clar distincţiile .
are drept bază : ideologia , etnonaţionalismul şi extremismul religios .
așadar , componenta religioasă e doar a treia ca însemnătate .
are drept scopuri imediate , politice desigur , intimidarea populaţiilor din ţări declarate ostile , răspândirea generalizată a fricii şi a sentimentului de insecuritate .
neostentativ , ajungem la erorile care se fac în reacţia şi măsurile de combatere a terorismului .
dacă nu e război , a-i declara război nu are sensul proclamat .
nu va fi învins prin măsuri militare sau de forţă , oricât efort s-ar dedica acestei căi , ca soluţie .
a proceda reactiv , prin metoda acţiune-reacţie , nu este o cale eficientă .
cum se explică faptul că în materie de pace onu a adoptat acţiuni de supraveghere a păcii , de stabilire a păcii , dar nu şi acţiuni de construire a păcii ?
dacă nu este în principal o mişcare religioasă , confruntarea cu islamul , oricât de răspândită , nu ţine .
dacă este transnaţională , măsurile internaţionale nu sunt suficiente .
capitolul „ violenţa ca acţiune simbolică ” este revelator pentru înţelegerea fenomenului .
terorismul are mesaj .
acordă importanţă majoră transmiterii lui .
urmărește popularitatea , publicitatea şi pătrunderea în mass-media .
vrea să rămână mereu , prin actele sale necurmate , în atenţia generală .
cititorul este îndemnat la reflecţii şi concluzii proprii .
dacă are drept ţintă populaţii civile , întreţine terorismul scopuri de a obţine putere statală proprie ?
dacă nu vrea să desfiinţeze marile puteri ale lumii , are cel puţin ambiţii de a se instala în locul lăsat liber de un mic stat slăbit ?
în această fază ni se semnalează doar conivenţe statale .
terorismul este interesat să obţină sprijin de la statele care îl pot ajuta cu bani şi arme .
e o complicitate ascunsă , curentă în şantaj sau faimoasa taxă de protecţie a mafiilor .
de unde dispune de arme şi bani , în special arme ?
oricâtă forţă umană ar angaja în reţelele sale , ea ar fi ineficientă în absenţa armelor , explozibilului , mijloacelor tehnice de comunicare rapidă , a folosirii marilor avantaje aduse de globalizare prin desfiinţarea limitelor anterioare de spaţiu şi timp .
studiul anatomic şi fiziologic al terorismului este realizat minuţios şi edificator .
la fel evoluţia lui istorică .
este urmat de cercetarea atentă a conflictelor şi a violenţei , în care autorităţi ca burton pentru conflicte şi galtung pentru violenţă sunt chemate la bară , ceea ce se întâmplă rar în literatura relaţiilor internaţionale .
capitolul de „ etiologia conflictelor violente ” ne pregăteşte pentru pasul esenţial de a înţelege , dincolo de violenţă , cauzele acesteia .
este o schimbare de perspectivă care mută terenul de la manifestările violenţei la planul minţii umane , unde se făuresc viziunile .
istoria îndelungată , evoluţia continuă , schimbarea conjuncturilor ne fac să recunoaştem că orice abordare pe termen scurt sau eradicarea rapidă cu strategiile şi resursele actuale sunt sortite eşecului .
nevoia de a-l considera proces de termen lung face ca studiile prospective să fie implicate în stăvilirea şi eventuala eradicare a terorismului .
este ceea ce autoarea întreprinde în capitolul final „ evoluţia terorismului în secolul al xxi-lea ” .
în locul tonului dominant al cărţii , neutru şi echilibrat , această parte cu totul remarcabilă sună trâmbiţele unui avertisment sumbru , dar lucid .
terorismul este departe de a-şi fi epuizat mijloacele .
alternează perioadele de acţiune cu cele de observaţie şi de adaptare la situaţii noi .
de la „ reţea ” trece la „ reţea destructurată ” , cu capacităţi crescute de a se ascunde .
gradul de sofisticare a acţiunilor creşte şi în ceea ce priveşte strategia şi în ceea ce constituie mijloacele .
apoi , teroriştii amatori , cu bucata ( part-time ) , care apelează la mijloace locale , improvizate .
competenţa operaţională a profesioniştilor creşte .
au celulare de unică folosinţă , îşi însuşesc rapid tehnologiile informatice de comunicare , vizează accesul la arme nucleare , biologice , chimice , urmăresc procesul de proliferare pe plan mondial , care nu dă semne de încetineală .
componenta religioasă este în creştere , trăieşte şi se dezvoltă pe stratul gros de deficienţe şi probleme nerezolvate ale lumii dezvoltate pe care o contestă . este pentru autoare un prilej de a parcurge lista slăbiciunilor civilizaţiei actuale şi costul ridicat al recurgerii la metode ineficiente şi eronate în combaterea fenomenului terorist . „ sărăcia , încrederea scăzută , conflictele etnice şi sociale , inegalitatea politică , susţinută de intoleranţa etnică şi de radicalism şi manipulare de lideri maniaci nu arată un semn de declin în viitor . ”
iată de ce , pe lângă celelalte merite ale sale , cartea dr .
virginia mircea aduce o contribuţie esenţială la studiile prospective , ce trebuie întreprinse ca simple cerinţe ale supravieţuirii .
av tech opens up a world of museums in romania website lures sexy romanian migrants to work as lap dancers in the uk bucharest to london : on the bus with the romanians taking the 52-hour ...
ed miliband warns of impact of romanian and bulgarian migrants on british ...
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukraineromaniaeconomypoliticssport av tech opens up a world of museums in romaniainavate 14 : 51 6-jan-14 mr karegeya fled the regime - and 20 years in jail - claiming he was not safe , and by his own standards he was kagame 's greatest foe .
it seems the case was closed before his body reached the morgue .
kigali is silent .
but who is karegeya ?
it seems mr karegeya was no angel .
in fact , quite the contrary , he was a ruthless opportunist who would sacrifice the lives of ordinary rwandans to gain the one thing he wanted most : power .
through two of kabuga 's children , donatien nshimyumuremyi alias nshima and seraphine uwimana who visited rwanda between october and december 2003 , kabuga was able to regain the rights to family property .
" but on the other hand , the challenge is fuel is rising very fast , so how quickly you can hedge , and how quickly you can pass on the costs are important , " he pointed out. to stay in ] [ bars & pubs ] [ bangkok that 's what my mother would say if she were alive today , and her mind had never been tangled by beta-amyloid plaques that strangle nerve cells and synapses to death as the plaques clump in the brain .
the word was a polite way to curse so as not to teach her 12 children epithets that they might repeat in school or in a public place , like a grocery store .
she spoke the word for more serious offenses , too .
a sixth-grade brother of mine sneaks out of the house and he and a friend drive a car into a garage .
that 's not even the half of it .
the interminable worrying my mother endured .
" oh , shitwa ! "
what my siblings and i put her through .
on her dream trip to st. croix , the plane blew out an engine .
amongst the panicking passengers , my mother stoically sat .
the woman next to her was losing it , so my mother , exhibiting the tenderness used to nurture all of her children , calmed her seatmate , most likely singing " you are my sunshine , " which she sang to all of us over and over again to help us fall asleep .
my mother wasn 't alone when she died .
five of her children made it to her bedside and sang , " you are my sunshine " to her as she breathed her last breath .
how does a boy get over the loss of his mother ?
i suppose he never does .
my siblings and i will manage to cope , like children do everywhere .
time as a salve .
copyright maxxmarketing webdesigner gmbhlocal businesses in france : km directory here ’ s what ’ s at stake in boeing machinists vote fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est end to blockage may be near for tunnel-digging bertha fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 29 pm est as boeing workers cast ballots , here ’ s what ’ s at stake fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 29 pm est oregon zoo orangutan kutai dies after illness sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est fiery crash closes bothell way sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 29 pm est good samaritans rescue woman out of burning car mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est police : bus stop robber snatches cell phone and wallet mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 29 am est man frees himself out of alpental avalanche sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 29 pm est good samaritans rescue woman out of burning car mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est chehalis warehouse may become the state ’ s largest marijuana farm fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 29 pm est man escapes alpental avalanche , digs himself out sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 29 pm est seahawks ’ marshawn lynch fined $ 50k by nfl sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 29 pm est xbox one sales hit 1 million on first day sat nov 23 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est to spin or not to spin : does microsoft need xbox ?
fri nov 22 , 2013 10 : 29 am est gates chokes up at ballmer ’ s microsoft shareholders goodbye tue nov 19 , 2013 2 : 29 pm est microsoft unveils state-of-the-art cybercrime center thu nov 14 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est ford ceo mulally : no comment on microsoft ’ speculation ’ thu oct 24 , 2013 12 : 29 pm edt answers for readers : speed & 8211 ; how much is too much ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est washington ’ s missing children in photos sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est ’ science guy ’ bill nye to debate biblical creationist sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 29 am est ’ science guy bill nye to debate biblical creationist fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est boeing deal wont end companys tough bargaining sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 29 am est machinists say yes , secure 777x for everett sat jan 4 , 2014 02 : 29 am est nation ’ s media look at machinist vote fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 29 pm est gay educator says he was told he could save job if he divorced mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 29 am est mochi tsuki tradition ushers in new year on bainbridge mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 29 am est on bainbridge , 25 years of new year ’ s mochi sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est microsoft execs jon devaan and grant george depart thu jan 2 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est report : nsa intercepts computer deliveries mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 29 am est microsoft pri0 out of the office until the new year fri dec 20 , 2013 10 : 29 pm est microsoft names jim dubois as cio fri dec 20 , 2013 6 : 29 pm est vocations and priestly formation > priesthooddiscernmentwhat is a vocation ? the word " vocation " comes from the latin word " vocare " .
this means a calling , and invitation .
god created us and he is actively involved in our life .
god is always calling us to be what he created us to be .
a vocation is our call , our invitation to follow him.do i have a vocation ? is god calling me ?
yes .
god calls every person to himself .
we could say that god calls us to be one of his children , a disciple , a saint ( holy ) , a servant , and a great lover .
these five universal calls are lived out in one of four vocational paths or lifestyles .
because god created us for happiness , we will never experience the full joy that god intends for us unless we live out our call in the vocational path or lifestyle that he placed within us at conception.what is my vocation ? simply put , our vocation is to know , love , and serve god completely so that we may be happy here on earth and with him in heaven for all eternity .
we are made for god .
we a foreigner legally married to a thai citizen qualifies for a non-immigrant the bank and non immigrant visa .
you need to show bank statements and not necessarily from thailand eg singapore is ok as with vientianne but take 2 .
applicants must not have been adjudged mentally incapacitated as to negate to marry a thai citizen or a foreigner , you must : ( $ us55 or baht equivalent ) at the embassy or consulate .
chiangmai services are if i marry a thai-lady and make it officially in foreigner own business or property then we suggest to seek a prenuptial the house belongs to the one who owns the land .
of course the person who rents land and builds a house on it , can dismantle and move it to another location as long as it is allowed by the land lease .
in this 3 ) if married she can still buy a house but the husband must sign at the land and that if they divorce the house will not go to him ( also the wife must sign at the the law has now changed !
she can buy land provided her husband signs a declaration that he lays no claim to it. in the lanna kingdom of chiangmai where we can set up. to marry in the traditional old ways in a beautiful country .
a legal wedding fee would be it can take us up to 3-7 days to process .
you then choose to have an odd number of monks who will preside over the & 6th vacancy is buddha so offering to them can be in the form of money in a foreigner as best man ? one can say a few words in english and then the wrists in the land of smiles one can have a beautiful a truely happy occasion .
budget at about 10,000-20,000 baht depending on how everything from plates to cutlery to tables and chairs .
we can also arrange to land ?
yes 1 rai if he / she invests 40m baht .
can if he / she has a land ?
yes a good alternative to buying if one cannot predict their the children can inherit her share but it protects the foreigner as he / she has no rights if no lease and the wife dies first .
an usufruct is even a better way of securing your property and now is the best way for foreigners buying [ roperty in thailand. house ?
yes he can own the house outright .
all monies coming in over as being his / her money for the transaction .
it is a safeguard for you in case of she has a will then the children will inherit .
it pays to ask a lawyer to make his / her next of kin ?
yes if the house and land is held in a company. safeguard my investment ?
yes see our lawyer who can make prenuptial account ?
we say no as either or can withdraw & many foreigners seller 's lawyer if i buy a house or land ?
no as he or she will not be working girlfreind or wife if i buy a house or land ?
no use a lawyer to clear for you and transfer .
some land depts are known to support the thai if you qu : costs to divorce if have to go to court ?
most lawyers to assist in a divorce case will charge a starting fee of 80,000baht plus ?
it all depends on the complexity of the court case--where it is to be conducted etc .
qu : can you perform buddhist traditional wedding for m ?
yes if you want to marry in thailand we can arrange everything for you from monks chanting to whatever you want .
1 / .
write to nz embassy for the form .
fees are countries and many you cannot get visas at the airport any more .. path for my girl to come to the uk .
we 're not married , but i 'm hoping a is see if she can be live in england ( and with me full-time ! ) .
if ok then we you could go for a fiance visa .
that will give her 6 months in the uk during which time you decide if you want to marry or not - and marry .
it is then in a bbc documentary 5 / 6 years ago the programme showed applicants at the embassy and one guy in his 30s applied for his thai girl who was 15 and had a child was allowed a fiancee visa ! ! !
she lied about her age , claiming she was the 2nd case concerned the oap in his 70s , one brian clegg a retired british gas embassy awarded them a visa ! .
they met thru a bkk dating agency and spent a few days in the hotel bed weeks later cleared off and found a job in a thai restaurant somewhere in so you see applicants who should never get a visa may get one , and those who honghong : hong kong is one of the a.s.e.a.n. and no visa is required , or at least that is the theory , i took a girl there and i got 6 difficult .
if you 're going to be working in hong kong , the best way may be for you to " employ " her on a 2-year contract as a domestic helper .
she 'll then be able to get a long term visa to allow her to stay for a year , extendable for another year to the end of the contract .
she will not be allowed to work for separation : [ divorcing ] [ thai visa to the usa ] immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ chiangmai ] [ condos & rentals ] [ leasing land ] [ thai products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back to exporters list ] [ chiangmai ] [ fishing ] [ clothing ] [ aircraft ownership ] [ oil paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] [ spare wheel covers ] [ canned food products ] [ renting or buying real estate ] [ sandstone ] [ ice boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans & designer wear ] [ designer jeans ] i toolboxes i russian helicopter sales i wheelie bins i portable homes / offices ] [ genuine home furniture plastics company ] [ shop & showroom fittings ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] [ funeral rotomolded windows & doors ] [ digital keyless door locks ] [ flipflops ] [ parquet flooring ] [ baby and children clothes ] [ rubber keyrings ] [ t shirts / polo shirts ] [ exporting cars & pickups ] [ tank tops ] [ lacquerware of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs comoros news headlines sayyid fahd leads omani side in talks with comoros delegation ( menafn - muscat daily ) his majesty sultan qaboos bin said received president dr ikililou dhoinine of comoros at hisn al shumoukh in manah on sunday evening .
during the audience , b ... ( 12 / 16 / 2013 3 : 39 : 24 am ) 2.algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifies 7.and the award for ' best island of the year ' goes to niijima homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesport ( 1 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; artsworld newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkans woman jumps on car by freeway , is arrested mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 24 am est grangers are on a mission sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 24 am est dispensary opening postponed due to construction sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 24 pm est fruitland thumps baker girls sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 24 pm est bulldogs fall to philomath fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 24 pm est minimum wage hike a ’ modest but real boost ’ sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 24 am est city council set to rule on witham oaks development mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 24 am est dispensary opening postponed due to construction sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 24 pm est chad drive sitepicked for clinic fri mar 1 , 2013 04 : 24 am est looking at the proposed klamath county charter sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 24 am est badger run adding large reconditioning pen sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 24 am est two teens arrested , one sought for medford robbery mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 24 am est ashland sees birdwatching as a possible tourism draw mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 24 am est agriculturalist of the year sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 24 am est winter inversions can really get you down sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 24 am est oregon zoo orangutan kutai dies mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 24 am est state police : who rammed this guardrail ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 24 am est ymca new year ’ s eve party - east coast new year ’ s mon dec 30 , 2013 06 : 24 am est ducks ’ thomas to leave for nfl mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 24 am est stakeholders demand review of teaching in schools na james kandoya school closing infois your school or business closing because of the weather ? tell us about your closingso we can let our viewers know .
if the jackson women ’ s health organization closes , the state would be the only one in the country without a provider .
wow & # 8211 ; what a wild weekend it was in waterton !
a weekend to remember & # 8230 ; for all the wrong reasons legal status of russian airbase in belarus to be determined russia pledges up to $ 2bln in new loan for belarus homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainebelaruseconomypoliticssport russia leading the way in protectionist policiesirish examiner 00 : 19 31-dec-13 6 . choice & # 8212 ; you can choose to advertise in any or all of our regional editions ( bc , alberta , manitoba / saskatchewan and ontario ) .
plane skids off runway into snow at jfk sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 21 am est gonzalez : what a sheikdown !
yankees , mansour bin zayed to get $ 200m in subsidies if city oks soccer stadium deal mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est alleged $ 700g queens conman says he ’ s ’ too fly ’ for wife , girlfriend mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est lovett : assemblyman micah kellner ’ s accuser stayed in touch mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 31 am est new yokers flock to gracie mansion for de blasio pics mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est cuomo foe rips him on medical pot mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est feds push to seize mob wives dimicheles tv show cash mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 21 am est cuomos state of the state to be orgy of self-congratulation mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 21 am est mark-viverito was for charters before she was against them mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 21 am est the neediest cases : seeking independence , three men start in the kitchen sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 21 pm est 16-year-old is fatally shot on his way home from a party in brownsville sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 21 pm est a developer is mourned and vilified in brooklyn sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 21 pm est in bid to be council speaker , a tenants champion fights an uphill battle sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 21 pm est man orders burgers , robs restaurant mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est ny body id ’ d as kidnapped man : cops mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 21 am est cop shoots suspect in queens mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 21 am est cop fires at man in queens : nypd sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 21 pm est fake clicks are big business on facebook , twitter , youtube sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 21 pm est survival of the fittest : outerbridge crossfit in tottenville sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 21 pm est powered by phoca galleryicahn enterprises looks grossly overvalued - barrons.com burundi : l ’ assemblée nationale se penche sur un délicat projet de révision de la constitution burundi : l ’ assemblée nationale se penche sur un délicat projet de après trois mois de débats houleux et de fortes tensions , l ’ assemblée nationale est appelée à examiner puis à adopter ce lundi un projet de révision de la constitution très contesté , initié par le gouvernement de pierre nkurunziza en catimini .
ses objectifs sont notamment de lui permettre de se représenter pour un troisième mandat successif , d ’ enlever au sénat son pouvoir de veiller aux équilibres ethniques , ou encore de passer de la majorité des deux tiers à la majorité simple pour l ’ adoption des lois à l ’ assemblée nationale , au risque d ’ exclure du jeu politique la minorité tutsie .
et , contrairement à ce qui s ’ est passé samedi , où l ’ assemblée a adopté un projet de loi très contesté également sur la résolution des conflits fonciers , il va y avoir du suspens malgré une majorité écrasante à l ’ assemblée nationale du burundi , rien n ’ est joué d ’ avance pour le parti présidentiel car c ’ est une majorité spéciale des trois quarts qui est requise pour amender la constitution par la voie lors de la plénière de ce lundi 30 décembre , le président pierre nkurunziza pourra compter sur les 81 députés issus de son parti , sur les 106 qui composent la chambre basse du parlement burundais .
manque donc à l ’ appel quatre petites voix pour que son projet de révision de la constitution soit adopté .
et aux dernières nouvelles , aucun des trois groupes représentés à l ’ assemblée nationale les représentants de ces groupes ont en effet claqué la porte de la commission des affaires politiques chargée d ’ étudier ce projet de révision .
ils accusent le parti cndd-fdd au pouvoir au burundi de chercher à faire passer en l ’ état son texte très controversé , alors qu ’ ils avaient convenu lors d ’ une large concertation organisée par l ’ assemblée nationale il y a une semaine , de laisser que va faire le parti au pouvoir au burundi ?
la société civile exhorte le itau hunting bargains in peru after world ’ s biggest stock plunge minister : tanzania can now prosecute piracy cases na emmanuel onyango such offences were prosecuted in kenya and seychelles on a special embargo , the minister told the guardian in dar es salaam in a recent exclusive interview .
assignment : the world has been discontinued by the producer and is no longer available for broadcast .
be captivated by the pristine landscape of antarctica and the abundant wildlife of south georgia from the comforts of a luxury , state-of-the-art vessel with kayaks and world-class guides .
seasick steve , jessie ware and soul ii soul don 't quite measure up to emeli sande , the wombats and the charlatans .
most are in agreement thatmerton farmhas kept its intimate flavour .
" even though the line up is not as good this time , the atmosphere is still amazing . "
" last year there were a lot of good bands on and you can get a lot closer and see them .
when it is a big festival you are quite far away .
" a lot of it is family orientated as well .
it ’ s just chilled out . "
" because it ’ s local , your friends can come with you and it is not too far to travel . "
that is why lounge has still got it spot onthis year .
the opening of the beach hut village in herne bay will be a big moment for the seaside town .
it could mark the beginning of a shift in fortunes when the ribbon is cut by sandi toksvig , much-loved back in the day as a captain on call my bluff with the late kent broadcaster bob holness .
it will be the first step in regenerating a town which has suffered a series of false starts .
yet the first shoots of a new start are appearing .
so turn up for the launch this weekend .
you could be in at the start of something big .
east kent ’ s bid to become the uk ’ s city of culture in 2017 was as likely as dover athletic becoming romanabramovich 'snext project to squander his millions .
why the negative attitude ?
well for the same reason you had a negative attitude .
east kent is not a place .
at least then , thedecision-makers would have been able to identify with the ’ city ’ they were supposed to be assessing .
and would it not have been ok anyway to shoehorn in a mention of margate ’ s turner contemporary , folkestone ’ s triennial art installations and whitstable ’ s oysters , as was surely the aim of lumping together a series of towns which , on the whole , are not really that bothered about each other .
but are dundee , hull , leicester and swansea bay really all that superior culturally to the towns and cities we are already proud of in the county ?
is it not a sad indictment of our society that readers are most engaged with their local media when they are on the hunt for a minor celebrity ?
as scores of people gathered to try and catch a glimpse of the reality tv ’ star ’ , no one questioned whether it was worth all this fuss for a bloke whose biggest – and only – hit single came out in 1995 .
so the expectations for lounge were high , as it looked set to claim the crown of kent ’ s biggest music festival .
the four stars agreed to attend the screening as a favour to writer damon , who grew up in new barn and went to longfield upper school .
the q & a got off to a spluttering start , as a couple of the mics did not work and the panel were flummuxed with some bizarre questions .
the greatest pleasure of interviewing inbetweeners co-creator and writer damon beesley was finding out that the stuff viewers didn ’ t see on camera was just as funny as what made it onto tv in the bafta-winning show .
ahead of talking to fans at a q & a and screening of the inbetweeners movie , damonrevealed his sense of humour was still equally as juvenileas that ofwill , simon , jay and neil . & ldquo ; when we were filming on the boat for the field trip episode and joe had to stand naked , there was a quite a lot of concern for him because it was freezing cold in january . & ldquo ; in the scene , he falls into the water and they have to take all his clothes off because he is going to get hypothermia and at one point he stands up naked , to wave back at the land . & ldquo ; we all fell about laughing and because it was so funny , during the edit we wrote in a few lines to the script that neil [ played by blake harrison ] had put a sock over his parts – why would you do that ? & ldquo ; but it was brilliant and it made a good joke . & rdquo ; rarely do you get to see the spectacular tunes of the early days of rock and roll performed live .
save the last dance for me is based on the music of songwriting duo doc pomus and mort shuman and is the latest in a line of new jukebox musical to hit the stage .
the finale of the story , save the last dance for me , is a bittersweet gem , when its remembered as a lament from crutch bound doc pomus , who had polio as a child , and was never able to dance .
the man at the top of the uk ’ s largest independent theatre company and the everton fc chairman – a bit random in many people ’ s eyes – launches his latest jukebox musical save the last dance for me in kent this week .
why did you choose to launch save the last dance for me in dartford rather than a big west end theatre or one in a larger city ? & ldquo ; [ i see myself as ] a provincial theatre producer who has big broadway and west end successes .
i love the audiences out there .
when do you know whether a show is going to be a success ?
so after the success of dreamboats and petticoats , is a similar type of musical like save the last dance for me not too much of a risk ? & ldquo ; you never see a show that does not cost half a million , so that is a bit of a risk . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; because i think they will recoup one day .
it is called a nervous hit .
when it is not quite a flop and not quite a hit and just , is there .
the audience are enjoying it but you are not making a lot of money and you decide you are going to live with it for a little while .
are people stuggling to go out to the theatre now ? & ldquo ; yes i do think times are very tough financially and now you have got all the colossal distractions of what you can see on your tv , your dvd and you ipads .
it is extraordinary what is out there .
for people to go and see shows is an effort .
that is why you have got to try to find something that an audience responds to . & rdquo ; all of this istoppedoff with baby-faced sticksman callum norton .
what more could a fan want ?
perhaps it was just me – my mate told me he felt like the same thing was happening to him – but when i watched , drinking in their sound , i had to avert my eyes .
dale was looking me in the face the whole time .
it was uncomfortable .
as palma violets went on to prove , the positives of intimate venues far outweight any negatives .
perhaps it never felt awkward because chilli was too busy focussing his attention on guitarist sam fryer , as they try toestablish themselvesas the new pete doherty and carl barat .
want to know what ’ s on in the music industry in kent ?
want to know what ’ s on in your local theatres ?
want to know what ’ s really going on with the stars coming to the county who speak to the km group ’ s what ’ s on supplement every week ?
this is the place to find out .
from last minute shows to views on all the entertainment stuff going on in the county , this is the place to find out the real picturewith exclusive images , reviews and all the juicy bits of a-list gossip that didn ’ t make it into the paper .
follow chris on twitter : @ thechrisprice .
got a bee in your bonnet ? if you have a voice , and would like it to be heard , why not consider writing a blog for our site ?
click here to send us a message and let us know !
kent links / blogskentonlinekmfmkent businessin a kentish villageankeeastcliff richardthanet lifesix home ed in kentbig news margatethe green bicycle activistuniversity of kent blogsmedway resident - john m wardmusings from medwayshepway chairman 's blogthe all day breakfastmedway towns district scoutscreative foundationmedway eyestwuttle - royal tunbridge wells social media cafewhitstable umbrella community centrehazlitt arts centremargate harbour armramsgate arts dailykent youth theatrekent today & yesterdaykevin lynesfolkestone geraldwhitstable sunsetskent film officetunbridge wells forumi love whitstablekent weatherisleoneeastcliffe mattersmadkentdragonspacious & graciouskent today and yesterdaybignewsmargatetravelling the world on wheelswitwitwoobeauty for all budgetsthe grumpy commutertonbridge blogthe woodies blogmichael 's bookshopthanet online newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website builderwarrant roundup in hardin county on the bee engaged in a civil war driven by hostilities between hutu and tutsi peoples from un and chair of the burundi configuration of the un peacebuilding commission reconciliation commission to be operational by january 2012 and to establish a judicial mechanism to address impunity after the trc has completed its work , " said landgren , " these are important commitments .
the government has underlined to bnub that the trc process must be grounded in reconciliation and not in score seger said that the pbc is supportive of the creation of is also a way of tackling the present and the future too , " he said , " it 's but i think we are on the right track and ready to support the country there . " justice to un high commissioner for human rights navi pillay in geneva on may 3 .
the woodland trust have planted their bins in m & s stores in a bid to encourage people to recycle and save our woodlands .
proud mothers and fathers flocked to sutton valence ’ s village for a special performance of the nativity .
all in all , whatever the weather , you ’ ll be blown away by a visit to the isle of wight .
if you want a break that offers a mix of action and relaxation , bedruthan steps is worth a look .
des algériens mangent en public en plein ramadan , une première plus de 500 algériens ont mangé et bu en public en plein ramadan samedi dans la ville " rebelle " de tizi ouzou , dans une première action collective du genre pour marquer leur liberté de choix face à " l 'islamisation " du pays .
" il y a un climat de terreur qui règne contre ceux qui ne jeûnent pas " durant le mois de jeûne sacré musulman du ramadan , dénonce à l 'afp l 'un d 'eux , ali , la quarantaine , un technicien de cette ville kabyle située à 100 km d 'alger. acquiesce .
" il faut que la religion reste du domaine du privé " , dit-il en parmi les participants à cette action , figurent des citoyens sans affiliation et des militants politiques , surtout berbères , qui n 'hésitent pas à afficher le un étudiant de 18 ans , lounès , va encore plus loin en arborant une pancarte sur laquelle est écrit : " je ne suis pas arabe .
je ne suis pas obligé d 'être la ville de tizi ouzou a été le théâtre de troubles parfois sanglants liés aux revendications culturelles et identitaires des kabyles qui ont très mal vécu face à un public essentiellement jeune et masculin , armé de bouteilles d 'eau , de jus , de pain , de cigarettes et même de bières pour l 'un d 'eux , le président du mouvement pour l 'autonomie de la kabylie ( mak ) , bouaziz aït chebib , a revendiqué " l 'attachement ancestral " des kabyles " à la liberté de conscience " . de la religion " , lance-t-il , applaudi par les manifestants postés devant la préfecture sur le principal axe routier de cette ville de quelque 150.000 habitants , sans le moindre contrôle apparent de forces de sécurité .
et d 'annoncer que des manifestations similaires sont prévues ce jour à bejaïa , ville portuaire kabyle , et même en france et au canada , où vivent d 'importantes pendant le ramadan durant lequel les musulmans s 'abstiennent de boire , de manger , de fumer et d 'avoir des relations sexuelles du lever jusqu 'au coucher du soleil , les restaurants sont ouverts seulement dans les hôtels de luxe , et les autorités tout autant que les religieux incitent la population à respecter le jusque dans les années 1980 , dans les villes au moins , les restaurants étaient ouverts et ne jeûnaient que ceux qui le voulaient .
la guerre anti-islamiste de plus de dix ans ( à partir des années 1990 ) a changé la donne .
depuis , la société civile et nombre de partis d 'opposition avec le printemps arabe qui a vu l 'arrivée au pouvoir d 'islamistes dans ce rassemblement à tizi ouzou , l 'une des principales villes de kabylie , a été lancé dans la foulée d 'un contrôle de police effectué sur dénonciation le 19 juillet dans un bar fermé d 'une commune proche , tigzirt , où des jeunes déjeunaient .
le propriétaire , qui s 'était vu retirer sa licence , a finalement pu le wali de tizi ouzou , abdelkader bouazeghi , avait alors expliqué qu 'il ce n 'était pas la première fois que des mesures au moins vexatoires étaient prises contre des non jeûneurs .
des chrétiens algériens se sont même retrouvés devant la justice ces dernières années pour avoir refusé de faire carême .
" quelque 80 & percnt des algériens sont d 'accord avec ceux qui protestent contre le pouvoir grandissant des religieux dans le pays " , dit le technicien ali .
pour hamid , un retraité de tizi ouzou venu exprimer son soutien au mouvement , " il faut bien mettre un holà à tout cela : on ne peut pas forcer tout le monde à aller au paradis " , la fin ultime " promise " à tout pratiquant .
uzbekistan : the students in the tashkent oblast do not go to secondary schools ( photo ) homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternnorthern europenorthern europedenmarkestoniafinlandicelandlatvialithuanianorwayswedenbaltic statesfaroe islandsgreenlandlithuanialithuania roger hickey is co-director of the campaign for america ’ s future . he was a leader of the campaign to stop the privatization of social security , and he is a founder and member of the steering committee of health care for america now . in the late 1980s he and jeff faux created the economic policy institute .
how many economists does it take -- to make the congress and the president and the media pay attention ?
nobel laureate paul krugman has been warning of the dangers of austerity in his ny times column and on tv for a long time .
but the media treats him as an ...
even your cranky uncle can be thankful for social security third way dems get it wrong : progressives fight for economic growth i pledge to buy a made-in-us car .
if we all buy american - and obama and congress act - we can revive us manufacturing p & g ticket buy pushes bengals to sellout fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 23 pm est take a look at some of cincinnatis greenest buildings : slideshow fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 23 pm est these are the top videos of 2013 fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 23 pm est kroger buys ’ large quantity ’ of bengals tickets fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 23 pm est dick ’ s last resort to bring laughs to levee mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 23 am est voters may get a shot at tax hike mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 23 am est new city officials face hangover of problems mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 23 am est who is todd portune ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 23 pm est mainstrasse restaurant chez nora closes sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 23 am est man to be sentenced after ambulance crash mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 23 am est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 23 am est sex offender seeks admission to kentucky bar sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 23 pm est bengals upset by chargers 27-10 in playoffs sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 23 pm est uc students can get tickets and a ride to the belk bowl wed dec 11 , 2013 08 : 23 am est ’ sound of music ’ actress eleanor parker dies at 91 tue dec 10 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est uc and cps remain open despite snow tue dec 10 , 2013 2 : 23 pm est chargers rally for 27-10 win over bengals sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 23 pm est van through house in alexandria sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 23 pm est state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards ponce hotel has new owner fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 10 pm est feds : men plead guilty in giant atm scheme fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 10 pm est feds : men plead guilty in giant atm scheme fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 10 pm est gop a.g. ’ s assail obamacare changes fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 10 pm est at & t checkmates t-mobile in marketshare battle fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 10 pm est snapshot : wh mum on obamacare demographics ga .
tech qb to transfer fri jan 3 , 2014 09 : 10 am est frigid weather harmful to pets mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 10 am est deep freeze puts chill in tailgating in green bay sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est dekalb county leaders brace for frigid blast sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est can you lose weight on mcdonalds ?
this man did sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 10 am est white house proposes new gun rules for mentally ill sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 10 am est top 3 heartwarming stories of the week sat jan 4 , 2014 09 : 10 am est ex-nfl punter accuses coach of comments to ’ nuke ’ gays fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 10 pm est privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . 世界日報 夏威夷 the influential chairman of oaktree capital makes the case for his " middling stance " on asset values .
waziri mkuu , aupokea mwili wa aliyekuwa waziri wa fedha , dr. william mgimwa mjini iringa china and russia are cozying up to venezuela 's oil industry research and markets : reinsurance in venezuela , key trends and opportunities to 2017 cemex vows to ensure the interests of investors and employees in venezuela homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelavenezuelaeconomypoliticssport china and russia are cozying up to venezuela 's oil industrythe motley fool 22 : 07 4-jan-14 if your shipment has been received by customs and you refuse it because you will not pay the tariffs or taxes , we will refund you the cost of the product after charging you for the shipping and additional fees required to return the package to us .
deputy constantin niţă , do you think re-establishing a ministry for smes would be a useful idea ?
the end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future this speech has been delivered by roberto d. peccei & # 8211 ; vice chancellor for research at the university of california los angeles and son of aurelio peccei , founder of the club of rome – at the conference “ the global crisis as seen by aurelio peccei ” organized by the romanian association for the club of rome on 15th march 2011 at the national bank of romania in bucharest .
i can ‘ t to comment about the feelings of the president & # 8211 ; it is generally unacceptable .... © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssearch indexmundi the father accused of abducting his toddler has told the euro weekly news : " i did not kidnap my daughter . "
belgian kyshan van der zanden has been featured in spanish and british press accused of snatching his 21-month-old daughter laylah from her home in calpe and away from her mother gemma & # 8230 ; now that november is history , will the obamacare website work flawlessly from now on ?
or , as the president has said , will it at least work for the " vast majority " of people who need to buy insurance on their own ?
we will know in a few days if , as administration officials ...
like wellpoint in 2010 , gop overreach making obamacare a reality that 's not going away tomorrow is d-day for health insurers : the beginning of disintermediation obamacare : what 's in it for you ?
plenty , so take time to find out now that the obamacare website is largely fixed , it will be spin from here on in florida insurers are now free to screw consumers and must , by law , blame obamacare here 's how insurers are trying to trick you out of consumer protections in obamacare why no one should lose sleep because big insurers are taking a pass on exchanges a rare bipartisan idea to improve medicaid and save money a movement is needed to get corporations to disclose all their political spending .
let 's start it don 't let state lawmakers game obamacare to benefit the few insurers telling only part of the story in attempt to gut important consumer protections congress needs to close loopholes in obamacare insurers are using to boost profits new scheme to subvert obamacare would hike premiums for many consumers and businesses how insurers are cashing in on medicare while shunning small businesses and the individual market romney 's talking points on the uninsured are like the ones i wrote when i was an insurance industry flack rather not go bankrupt when you get sick ?
another reason to support obamacare " path to prosperity ? "
for many senior citizens , vp pick ryan 's plan would be path to the poorhouse it took public shaming via twitter to get big insurer to cover grad student 's cancer care obamacare a blessing for millions of real americans , including my mother , my daughter , my wife and me -- and you how obama and the democrats got played by the insurance industry on the mandate insurers laying the groundwork to remove consumer protections if mandate in obamacare is tossed why health insurers are counting on the supreme court to uphold obamacare hope the supremes strike down obamacare ?
get ready for panemcare vatican ii , gravissimum educationis introduction ) & ldquo ; & hellip ; the duty of educating belongs to the church , not merely because she must be recognized as a human society capable of educating , but especially because she has the responsibility of announcing the way of salvation to all men , of communicating the life of christ to those who believe , and , in her unfailing solicitude , of assisting men to be able to come to the fullness of this life .
the church is bound as a mother to give to these children of hers an education by which their whole life can be imbued with the spirit of christ and at the same time do all she can to promote for all peoples the complete perfection of the human person , the good of earthly society and the building of a world that is more human . & rdquo ; ( vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur m.huffpost.com / fr / pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
trouver une source d 'équilibre entre le travail manuel et intellectuel13 lire aussi : la circulaire a été envoyée aux préfets ...
le texte n 'apporte aucun argument nouveau par rapport à la loi médias - il faut remercier newsweek d 'égayer notre rentrée de janvier .
que d 'inepties dans cet article consacré à démolir la france , spécialité désormais revendiquée du journal ( le " french bashing " est de nouveau à la mode chez les anglo-saxons ) !
il émane pourtant d 'une journaliste réputée , paraît-il , pour la qualité de ses reportages de guerre au proche-orient , mais elle a dû confondre paris et beyrouth après un réveillon trop imbibé de dom pérignon rosé ou de château margaux .
car elle est ' hype ' , notre journaliste .
chic et tout .
son article qui vaut le détour , s 'appelle " the fall of france " autrement dit " l 'effondrement de la france " , un titre , soit dit en passant , qui fut très utilisé aux etats-unis durant l 'été 1940 , lorsque la france fut défaite en un mois .
c 'est dire à quel point nos confrères anglo-saxons s 'alarment pour nous !
politique - les élections municipales et européennes sont plus que deux simples scrutins : ils sont un véritable test pour la droite .
alors que le gouvernement n 'a pu contenir les intérêts particuliers des uns et des autres , l 'opposition devra trouver comment rassembler autour d 'un projet commun .
les vœux joyeux , les bonnes résolutions , le trop plein de chocolats , les heureuses vacances au menu des uns .
la solitude , l 'absence de logement décent , les familles déchirées , le manque d 'argent et de travail , la vie sans joies au menu des autres .
dans la sphère privée , tous les débuts de janvier se ressemblent , avec ses privilèges ou ses injustices .
chercheuse au ceri-sciences po et analyste sur le moyen-orient au conseil européen des affaires étrangères international - cette " bataille de fallouja " intervient à une date particulièrement symbolique , à savoir dix ans après les deux sièges militaires américains qui avaient dévasté la ville suite au rapt et à l 'exécution par pendaison de quatre contractuels de la société blackwater .
international - dans le peloton de tête des pays qui accueillent les réfugiés , il y a le pakistan et l 'iran .
les 25 pays accueillant le plus de réfugiés sont des pays en voie de développement ; malgré toutes les difficultés intérieures économiques , sécuritaires et humanitaires .
députée européenne , ancienne ministre de l 'environnement , présidente de cap21 et du rassemblement citoyen sexe - écrivains érotiques , acteurs , producteurs d 'événements sexy , directrices artistiques , éditeurs et journalistes sexo , blogueurs ...
ils ont tous une idée très précise de ce que sera la vie sexuelle en 2014 .
florilège de ces nouvelles tendances .
dieudonné - dieudonné se nourrit des dénonciations et des tentatives de censurer sa parole .
une sanction pour des menaces à peine voilées serait légitime car il s 'agit de protéger des personnes singulières contre des actes de violence possible .
quenelle - l 'effet d 'attraction du geste de la quenelle est indéniable .
on ne saurait passer à côté de sa portée symbolique .
il peut signifier , au moins chez une partie de ceux qui l 'accomplissent , le ralliement à la thèse du binôme dieudonné-soral qu 'il faudrait de la sorte railler et dénoncer par l 'esbrouffe .
chercheur à l 'iris sur les questions ibériques ( amérique latine et espagne ) aujourd 'hui l 'impossibilité de répondre aux urgences est l 'un des effets inattendus de la mondialisation .
postures , coups de poker , effets de manche , vessies et lanternes , parés d 'éclats séduisants trempés dans la magie médiatique et l 'artifice du jeu , de la provocation et de la compétition s 'efforcent de créer le change .
doctorant sur les mooc à l 'ecole normale superieure de cachan , membre du think tank l 'alambic enseignement supérieur - l 'existence d 'un débat démocratique est une chose saine .
à vrai dire , si je pense que le concept de mooc a un potentiel immense au point de faire ma thèse sur le sujet , je suis très critique vis-à-vis des motivations qui poussent nombre d 'établissements à se lancer .
cameroun - l 'afrique a perdu une de ses plumes les plus étincelantes .
l 'écrivain malien moussa konaté est mort en france .
c 'est le moment que choisit l 'ancienne plagiaire , la compatriote camerounaise de dieudonné , pour railler la disparition de quelqu 'un , a priori , si difficile de détester .
famille d 'accueil , s 'occupe d 'adolescents trop tôt confrontés à la dureté de la vie politique - érasme dédia un petit ouvrage à charles quint intitulé l 'éducation du prince chrétien , dans lequel il écrivit : " nous souhaitons le bonheur à notre président " .
c 'est pourquoi je me permets d 'emprunter ces vœux à l 'autre grand charles et de les adresser à françois hollande , qui en a grand besoin par les temps qui courent .
révolte sunnite et impasse de la violence : l 'irak au bord de l 'implosion ?
interdiction de dieudonné : les solutions à disposition de m. valls vidéoils filment la vague qui a emporté deux personnes à biarritzcapture ecranpopulaire la constitution tunisienne garantit-elle réellement l 'égalité entre les citoyens et les citoyennes ? afp merkel chute en ski de fond et se fêle le bassin deux patrons de goodyear séquestrés ... par des pneus de tracteurtwitter visé par une plainte pour association de malfaiteurs , dassault répliqueafp les français n 'ont pas été aussi pessimistes depuis ...
18 ansafp vidéomoment de grâce quand nkm et hidalgo se croisent au marchéi-télé ce portrait de la france dans newsweek va vous agacercapture newsweek un journaliste refait le parcours de schumacher en caméra embarquée chez les employés à la sûreté ferroviaire de montpellier , des actes racistes en toute impunitéafp abattu ou dévoré par des chiens ?
le mystère de la mort de l 'oncle de kim jong-unafp evander holyfield ne met pas de gants pour évoquer l 'homosexualitéchannel 5 5 nouvelles tendances sexe pour 2014tim hawley via getty images une polémique sur twitter oblige urban outfitters à retirer ce t-shirtdr trois régimes qui vous font plus de mal que de bienshutterstock il se cache dans sa machine à laver ... et y reste coincéshutterstock vous ne devinerez jamais le prénom de leur second enfantafp 5 sportifs qui feraient mieux de prendre leur retraite en 2014reuters online issuehomeeventsturtle lake maporder photo reprintsletter to the editorstory ideascontact usvideos the trojans evened their record at one win and one loss with an 82 to 56 win over the new salem holsteins on tuesday night .
but , friday night the trojans lost to the linton lions on the home court 68 to 55 to put the trojans at one win and two losses .
why boring was the way to go for investors in 2013 stateline — state cuts to higher ed have led to tuition hikes billion , or $ 2,353 per student , the report by the center on budget and policy universities , including thousands of layoffs at schools in arizona and arizona froze tuition and fees at the two largest universities in the state , washington postsee realtime coverageusa 's shiffrin wins slalom in bormiosports network- & lrm ; 19 hours ago & lrm ; " i am used to skiing in these conditions , on the east coast it 's like this a lot .
it was a tough day , you really had to fight and i am psyched that i did.related mikaela shiffrin and the picture for gold-mining stocks is likely to be even bleaker since those companies tend to be a leveraged bet on the price of the metal .
but at least no one is predicting the demise of gold as an alternative to dollar and the stock and bond markets .
guam residents and visitors who cycle now have the option to race competitively or recreationally on the biggest day for cycling on island . ( 1 / 4 / 2014 12 : 13 : 42 pm ) salute : thanks to all the men and women of guam 's guard for their service premier , advisor and special envoy of the custodian of the two holy mosques , efforts in the region and aspects of cooperation between the kingdom and the international organization in the service of security and stability in the a native of walston , arkansas and a resident of silsbee for 39 years , she worked at market basket as a meat wrapper .
she was a longtime member of the eastern stars .
a native of knoxville , tennessee , she was a longtime resident of texas .
new restrictions on abortion may limit women ’ s access to health care services – stateline i didn ’ t think at this stage of my life that i would be getting ready to go back to school !
actually , i was invited to attend a colloquium for newly-appointed bishops , to be held in rome from sept .
9-17 , by his eminence cardinal marc ouellet , the new prefect of the congregation for bishops .
i had the great privilege of remembering you , my flock , at the holy places and to the holy father himself .
in particular , i remembered you at the shrine of our lady of the rosary of pompeii , where i offered mass for our diocese and asked our lady ’ s help and protection at the tombs of st. peter and st. paul and to the holy father himself .
we have the largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want in our new hardcopy classified news in bangkok , thailand .
post free ads [ classifieds the for traditional doctors and birth attendants has vowed to curb the brutal killings of people with albinism and the elderly in the country .
tengeza said the allegations against them are prompted by unscrupulous traditional doctors who are out for quick riches and are not dedicated to truly serving the people .
it marks its advance to the next stage as president kikwete embarks on selection of the members of the constituent assembly which will discuss the draft constitution , before it is subjected to a referendum .
reuben " chip " unruh of zap recites his poem he wrote entitled " a soldier 's poem " monday , may 30 at the hazen american legion memorial day service in the hazen high school theater in hazen , n.d. the hazen junior high band--featuring sierra moeykens and krista slaubaugh on the marimba , jadynn flowers on the oboe and cassia catterall on the flute--perform " the first breath of spring " during the hazen band spring pops concert may 19 at the hazen high school theater in hazen , n.d. jihad jane får sin dom i usaexpressenjihad jane fick tio års fängelsehufvudstadsbladetsee all 84 sourcesrelated lars vilks colleen larose eli jihad-jane suunnitteli ruotsalaisen pilapiirtäjän lars vilksin ... yle- & lrm ; 57 minutes ago & lrm ; myös nimillä jihad-jane ja fatima rose tunnetuksi tullut larose pidätettiin vuonna 2009 philadelphiassa , kun hän oli palaamassa euroopasta yhdysvaltoihin.jihad jane sai kymmenen vuoden tuomioniltalehtisee realtime coveragesee all 5 sourcesrtl nieuwssee realtime coveragetien jaar cel voor ' jihad jane 'nieuws.nl- & lrm ; 11 minutes ago & lrm ; een amerikaanse vrouw die zichzelf online ' jihad jane ' noemde is maandag door een rechtbank in philadelphia tot tien jaar gevangenisstraf veroordeeld wegens een complot om de zweedse tekenaar lars vilks te vermoorden .
de 50-jarige colleen larose ... related mohammed amerikaanse ' jihad jane ' krijgt tien jaar cel voor moordcomplotelsevier 'jihad jane ' de cel inspitsnieuwssee all 9 sourcesrelated mohammed the wife of a garage owner from lamberhurst who is still in hospital after he was critically injured during a hit and run accident in july ...
if you see any of the following changes , bring them to your doctor 's attention : cover the entire breast from top to bottom , side to side — from your collarbone to the top of your abdomen , and from your armpit to your cleavage .
the president of benin took advantage of françois hollande ’ s presence at the investiture of ibrahim boubacar keita to have a discreet discussion with him about the talon affair . ( ... )
the non-executive director of nordgold is keeping a close eye on the fall in the ( ... )
a professor at cheikh anta diop university in dakar , senegal , oumar ndongo has been ( ... )
in a report last year , the tax foundation also decried the holidays as a way to mask other , broader tax issues. violence . hangu borders orakzai tribal region that is one of the seven federally in another incident , unknown militants in bannu district of kpk blew up a " mock sun " ( also " sun dogs " ) is a colloquial term for a phenomenon called " parhelion " which occurs fairly commonly in polar atmospheres .
it is a false image of the sun , created by the bending of rays of sunlight within crystals of ice in the atmosphere .
parhelia are usually observed in pairs , one on each side of the sun and at the same elevation .
they tend to be red-coloured on the side nearest the sun .
parhelia are quite close to the sun when the sun is close to the horizon , but move further away as the angle above the horizon increases .
a majority ( 73 % ) defined binge-watching as watching two to six episodes of the same tv show in one sitting .
want an apple mac pro ?
get ready to wait a long time so if you want one of apple 's ( aapl ) radically redesigned mac pro computers , you had better be willing to wait .
3d printing3d systems4k tvaccessoriesaceractivisionadobe systemsadvertisingamazonamazon.comamcamdandroidantitrustaolapplearmasusat & tbarack obamabarnes & noblebest buyblackberryboxeebroadcomcbscelebritiesceschinachina mobilechipschromebookcirrus logiccisco systemscloudcoinstarcomcastconsumer electronicscorningdelldirectvdiscovery communicationsdish networkebaye-bookselectronic artsfacebookfrancefriday funniesgamestopgeneral electricgooglegoogle glassgrouponhewlett-packardht chtchuluibmintelinteractivecorpipadiphoneipodiposirobotjeff bezoskickstarterkindlekinglenovolglg displaylinkedinmade in usamade in usamarissa mayermicrosoftmoviesnetflixnews corp.nikenintendonokianxp semiconductorsoracleouterwallpanasonicpandorapcspinterestqualcommredboxretailrobotsrokuroviosamsungsharpsmartphonessmartwatchessocial mediasocial networkingsonysprintsquarestaplessteve ballmerstratasysstreaming videosurfacesurveysynapticstabletstake-two interactive softwaretargettesla motorstim cooktime warnertime warner cablet-mobiletoshibatumblrtwitterultra hdtvverizonviacomvideo gameswal-martwalt disneywearable computerswindowsyahooyoutubezillowzynga © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress ariel sharon 's health worsening , hospital says the 85-year-old sharon , who has been in a coma for eight years after a devastating stroke incapacitated him at the peak of his political power , is fighting and is not in pain , said dr. zeev rotstein , the director of tel hashomer hospital near tel aviv .
referring to sharon by his nickname " arik , " rotstein said sharon " is fighting like a real fighter , as he did all his life . "
as a politician , he became known as " the bulldozer " — a man contemptuous of his critics while also capable of getting things done . he was elected prime minister in 2001 .
he later bolted from his hard-line likud party and established the centrist kadima party .
it seemed he was on his way to an easy re-election when he suffered the stroke in january 2006 .
november 20 , 2013 i am a west african with a proud heritage of islam that was brought by mansa musa to the caribbean my history did not start in 1491-1493 but dates all the way back to dynasties but let ’ s start with the 13th century i ’ m saying this publicly to the ngc , who has been labelling we as a minority ...
commentary : the garifuna nation and the fight for reparatory justice january 4 , 2013 let there be no doubt , if gonsalves had managed to ram home the new constitution and dismiss the queen , we would be deeply in the do-do right now .
hola , mis amigos , permite hablar ...
alianza bolivariana para los pueblos de nuestra américa .
expounding on symbion ’ s investment plans for tanzania , hinks said the us-energy firm is currently developing a new 600mw plant and transmission line at mtwara and two new biomass plants at tunduru and kigoma .
the two power plants symbion operates in dodoma and arusha run on diesel , which makes the fuel cost considerably higher than if it was gas-fired .
one of the passengers in the boat , suleiman muhammed said , said some people and goods on the top deck slipped into water as the boat leaned on one side .
merkel attempts to calm immigration rowfinancial timesangela merkel 's new year 's resolution : fresh eu airirish timesfrom germany : job switch by merkel confidant draws criticismdeutsche wellesee realtime coveragesee all 34 sourcesrelated germany merkel urges germans to ' dare ' in optimistic new year addressdeutsche wellechancellor angela merkel holds new year 's addressgetty imagessee realtime coveragesee all 44 sourcesrelated germany at long last , angela merkel is sworn in as german chancellorchristian science monitorangela merkel is sworn in for third term as chancellornpr ( blog ) - by eyder peraltafrom germany : merkel takes oath of office , begins third termdeutsche wellesee all 864 sourcesrelated germany jp morgan set to be fined $ 2bn for allegedly ignoring bernard madoff ponzi ... telegraph.co.ukjp morgan to $ 2 billion in madoff fineswall street journalin depth : why ' sophisticated ' investors fall for ponzi schemesthestreet.com - by philip van doornsee all 97 sourcesrelated bernard madoff new york timessee realtime coveragesac manager 's jury can hear of greed , not fainting or firing ( 1 ) businessweek- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; prosecutors in the insider-trading trial of a former sac capital advisors lp fund manager can tell jurors that he was greedy , not that he fainted in front of fbi agents or was fired from his job , a judge ruled.related new york ny judge : fund manager 's faint no proof of guiltabc newstrial to focus on trades by sac 's cohennews.gnom.essee all 52 sourcesrelated new york verso paper to buy competitor newpage for about $ 907 million ( 1 ) businessweekverso paper to buy newpage holdingsnew york timesin depth : verso to acquire newpage to create stronger coated paper producerwall street journalsee all 82 sourcesrelated newpage privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
junk-bond yields : too low for comfort ? - barrons.com adpi participates in the resumption of works on the new terminal at zanzibar 's international airport , in tanzania adpi , a wholly-owned subsidiary of aéroports de paris , has been chosen to take part in the resumption of the upgrade ( 12 / 20 / 2013 5 : 59 : 00 am ) ron tonidandel in the 80 singles .
john mayotte in sunday ’ s finals .
philipe desilets in the 80 singles .
mike dahm returns a serve in sunday ’ s finals .
david rothgaber , a player from the longboat key public tennis center , won the 80 singles . ( 12 / 8 / 2013 5 : 27 : 47 pm ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe kirbyville banner - news on the bee redditor mmsspp 's boss brings her dog wrigley with her to work monday through friday , so naturally he set out to woo the pup -- and potentially get himself a pay raise .
investing in fund managements in the western world , guidelines and pitfalls concept of risk .
in reality it is easy .
it is the probability of loss , absolute or relative .
the second major job of a financial planner is to understand his client ’ s attitude to risk .
without understanding this he can ’ t develop a financial plan that will & ldquo ; satisfy & rdquo ; his client .
to work out a clients ’ attitude to risk a planner asks a number of questions like , how would you feel if you lost 20 % of your money in one year ?
how about you were not showing a profit but rather a loss of 20 % after 5 years ?
now the sad reality is most people who go to a financial planner or million $ $ scheme , do so out of greed or need .
and whether they realize it or not they will mislead the planner as to the attitude that they have to risk .
so it is really a bit of a waste of time asking these sorts of questions .
as in reality we are all pre-programmed to a point with an attitude to risk that is constant .
4 / .
and the final and by far the smallest group : & ldquo ; ok it ’ s a bum deal , bit of a shame , stupid me should have seen the writing on the wall earlier .
where is the next poker table as despite it all i still like the game . & rdquo ; the biggest mistake an investor can make in investing is not learning to move on .
winning and moving on is best but not moving on is worse that losing and moving on .
it is the moving on that allows you to use the time in front of you .
not moving on is time and life theft .
now if you are investing , which character type do you want to give your money to ?
the management of vortec were the optimist type .
the best managers of money are the last group , losing and moving on is ok so long as they don ’ t habitually make the same dumb decisions that caused the loss .
the worst fund manager is one who does not know when to move on or get the ball rolling so watch out kiddos you could be next .
so now you see the crisis helps the banks and bank execs not the taxpayers he cited the road as the one from tunduma via sumbawanga , nkansi , to katavi which is being upgraded to tarmac level .
new customers can create an account so that you can shop faster in the future and keep track of orders you have made in the past . „ ich sehe mich als den ersten diener der großloge von österreich “ der österreichische großmeister nikolaus schwärzler spricht über das wesen der freimaurerei , sittliche vervollkommnung und politischen einfluss .
a.t. : seit wann sind sie freimaurer ?
wie hat es ihre familie aufgenommen , als sie erfuhren , dass sie freimaurer sind ?
n.s. : seit dem 22.11.1980 .
meine familie – meine frau , meine eltern und geschwister & # 8211 ; haben es nicht gegen meinen willen „ erfahren “ , ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressprivacy policy - barrons.com to deliver relevant content and recommendations .
to make your experience more interesting and personalized , we may use any of the personal and other information we collect to assist us in delivering content on any of our dow jones online services .
for example , if you use wsj.com and factiva.com , we may use your wsj.com reading history to personalize the content delivered to you on factiva.com.
to complete a merger or sale of assets.if dow jones sells all or part of its business or makes a sale or transfer of its assets or is otherwise involved in a merger or transfer of all or a material part of its business , dow jones may transfer your information to the party or parties involved in the transaction as part of that transaction .
as uk prepares to lift restrictions , few in sofia or bucharest foresee a flood of emigrants – but everyone is shocked by being portrayed as scroungers in the rightwing british press " just one thing will really change for us on 1 january , " says horia vernescu , nursing a cappuccino in an overheated cafe on an otherwise bone-chilling december day in bucharest 's central university district .
" that ... ( 1 / 5 / 2014 4 : 11 : 21 am ) land of the ice and snowimgorthand via getty imagesit 's bad just about everywhere will 2014 be the year of the wearable gadget ? associated press crime spree insane while it lastedwashingtonydc | flickrmore british columbiacondo sales flatlining ..
cart your elk on out ..
spy watchdog lobbies for enbridge mbarali saccos out to recover 1.1bn / - in loans from society 's chronic debtors a section of economic observers in dar es salaam were a bit surprised to notice that the government still had a fight in the stomach on natural gas modality and financial supervision , a subject that has been commandeered by interest groups .
the government has been urged to establish an international market for processed gemstones and minerals in the country to speed up economic growth and improve the people ’ s livelihoods .
speaking to reporters in dar es salaam wednesday , twb managing director margareth chacha said that the bank was established specifically for women , and therefore there is a need for them to be educated on the terms of borrowing and how to use the loans to develop their ventures .
the government has embarked on harmonisation of laws and regulations governing the importation and distribution of substandard cosmetics and related products .
communication , science and technology minister prof makame mbalawa has directed the university of science and technology in mbeya ( must ) to introduce new courses in oil and gas fields so as to produce more tanzanian professionals .
the government through army ’ s wing suma jkt has procured 278 tractors to carter for the rising demand of the farming equipment by small and medium scale farmers in the country .
parliament told review of tax exemptions for foreign businesses in the pipeline her majesty queen máxima ( pictured ) of the netherlands and representatives of three food agencies of the united nations arrive in dar es salaam today to raise awareness of how access to financial services can improve the lives of smallholder farmers and the rural poor .
speaking in dar es salaam at the weekend , one of the organisers from the ministry of labour and employment bonaventura mwalongo said the seven-day exhibition has attracted over 1,000 exhibitors across the eac region .
ifc set to finance construction of energy-efficient building in dar the plan comes as one of the strategies that the isles is undertaking to uplift its economy in the next 50 years .
cbe , finnish varsity to train vendors on use of smartphones in marketing the government has called on wananchi to help the ministry of industry and trade to nab the traders who still import used undergarments through illegal routes .
the initiative is aimed at curbing the drop in number of tourists from the european region .
this was said at the weekend in dar es salaam by the secretary general of zanzibar association for youth education and empowerment ( zayee ) , fatma mabrouk khamis , at the opening of the global entrepreneurship week ( gew ) .
manyara regional commissioner eraston mbwilo said the move is meant to increase fish stock in the lakes , which of recent are overwhelmed by overfishing as well as unfriendly use of fishing gears .
snow not has heavy as forecast ; low temperatures will stay for a few days mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 18 am est military museum ’ s new missouri location to open in 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 18 pm est military museum ’ s new mo. location to open in 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 18 pm est two arrested for fulton burglary sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 18 pm est jc residents stock up before snowstorm sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 18 am est a warriors story mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 18 am est incoming freshman events on tap at helias mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 18 am est weather forces joplin to cancel classes on first day for new schools sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 18 pm est jo ellis : summer flowers , seed catalogs brighten the gray of winter sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 18 pm est public hearing on joe becker on tap for joplin city council sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 18 pm est kemper weaves his legacy into the fabric of kc fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 18 pm est hufft projects moves to new home in roanoke park fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 18 pm est husch blackwell ’ s schatz leaves for spencer fane fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 18 pm est harrisonville police to offer classes on spotting counterfeit money mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 18 am est fed chair , unemployment on tap as congress returns mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 18 am est deep freeze puts chill in tailgating in green bay sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 18 pm est city suspends trash and recyclng services for monday mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 18 am est robber holds up shawnee quiktrip store sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 18 pm est snow closings and delays sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 18 pm est snow closings and delays for sunday sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 18 am est the star ’ s online commenting policy thu dec 5 , 2013 8 : 18 pm est updated : sportswriter bill reiter ’ s eyewitness account at lax fri nov 1 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt the week ahead in business mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 18 am est at the end of the year , a time for wondering why mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 18 am est snowfall amounts up to a foot reported around ozarks mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 18 am est lady bears stumble against shockers mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 18 am est ozarks exposure : a frosty fishing trip mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 18 am est on the market : the most expensive homes in town and country fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 18 pm est state of st. louis : infrastructure on kerns docket in 2014 fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 18 pm est illinoisans can apply for concealed carry permits sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 18 pm est its a 30-year storm mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 18 am est st. louis composting garden hotline sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 19 pm est pedestrian hit by car on new halls ferry road wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt conceal carry con-artists popping up in illinois tue oct 22 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt man accused of killing niece returns to court for pretrial hearing tue oct 22 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt body found in burned out car identified tue oct 22 , 2013 12 : 19 pm edt one dead and at least seven injured in nyc high-rise fire mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 18 am est fire claims a life in fairview heights mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 18 am est many other othered and marginalized groups also get “ put on ” for a day every october .
under no circumstances is sexualizing and insulting indian , mexican , arabic or asian cultures an acceptable thing to do .
not even for a day , not even if you “ mean it as a joke , ” not even if you have one < insert ethnic group here > friend who thinks it ’ s really cool / funny / acceptable .
stay tuned for a petition to get these costumes taken out of the & # 8220 ; bookstore & # 8221 ; & # 8230 ; how about roman and greek costumes ?
does that misrepresent their cultures ?
how about dressing as a gangster ?
is that a grave insult to the italian culture ?
instead of vilifying her , you should try reflecting on the content of her piece , and why you feel uncomfortable about it .
dan patrick makes run at dewhurst with ‘ authentic conservative ’ pitch for no. 2 spot analysis : a new hope or false dawn for mexico 's oil refiners ?
do bullasi 'm approaching the end of my discourse on the wines of do bullas .
it 's been both tasty and interesting and i hope i 've done a little & # 8230 ; aces by siam simpenderfer rocketed the wildcats to a quick 8-1 lead in the second and it was easy sailing from there to 25-15 .
the wildcats couldn ’ t get anything going .
staigle tried to play on defense but he couldn ’ t wrap up so the senior was sidelined for the rest of the game .
beach didn ’ t let themselves feel sorry for the team and scored another touchdown .
the buccaneers drove the ball down to the 12-yard line and faced a fourth-and-1 .
the buccaneers got the conversion and scored on a nunberg 11-yard run putting them up 14-0 .
the two-pointer after was no good .
the easiest way to get classifieds in the post is to e-mail the text to : the easiest way to get your classifieds in the post is to e-mail the text to want to drive your lhd car to the uk & sell it when you get there ?
call 658 670 777 an " expedition " can be any journey undertaken by an individual or organized group of people with a definite unique objective , be it for the purpose of discovery , science , or fundraising. in the country .
arusha is another important market and is world + 15 others l ’ afd soutient 15 nouveaux projets d ’ organisations françaises de la société civile pour un montant de 8,9 millions d ’ euros le comité spécialisé du conseil d ’ administration de l ’ afd pour l ’ appui aux initiatives des ong s ’ est réuni le 17 décembre 2013 .
il a approuvé l ’ attribution de 15 subventions .
aides - accès à la prévention et aux traitements du vih / sida en afrique et dans les caraïbes © 2014 laurentian publishing salvage crew works inside the former mirro building in manitowoc | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media · assistance from azerbaijan makes up the bulk of the region ’ s outgoing aid in 2012 la société agricole de raffinage industrielle du sucre ( saris ) a enregistré une production record de 71.113 tonnes de sucre à l 'issue de la campagne sucrière 2013 contre 46.260 tonnes en 2012 , annonce un communiqué de cette entreprise publié jeudi à & # 8230 ; paul scally ’ s decision to sack martin allen was a controversial one but is it looking like a wise one ?
youngster bradley dack will get more goals and there is no doubting that .
set pieces are vital at this level and it was great to see us score one against stevenage .
we faced two different experiences in the last week and the trip to sheffield united , playing in front of 16,000 fans , is why we worked so hard to get the informer : sit up and take notice of panthers legend the first leg of the bags track championship was held last thursday at romford and crayford did not fare well .
it ’ s great to see danny kedwell reaping the rewards of his hard work .
infant ’ s untimely death being investigated thu jan 2 , 2014 12 : 09 pm est getting away with robbery ?
don ’ t bank on it tue dec 31 , 2013 8 : 09 pm est brownies spread holiday joy sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 09 pm est darien : a year in review sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 09 pm est bigelow ’ steeps ’ up to support troops with tea shipments sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 09 pm est a fairfielder in antarctica : ’ grandeur , vastness , beauty , loneliness and malevolence ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 09 pm est schools to eliminate drama , phys ed coordinators tue jan 8 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est fed chair , unemployment on tap as congress returns mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 09 am est deep freeze puts chill in tailgating in green bay sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 09 pm est plane makes emergency landing on nyc hwy mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 09 am est man faces sentencing in donovan case mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 09 am est employees honored for holiday eefforts mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 09 am est middlebury man faces sentencing in ...
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 09 am est preservationists see city missteps in destruction of 18th-century homestead sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 09 am est massive clean-up at shippan point sat jan 4 , 2014 02 : 09 am est residents and city dig out from storm sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 09 am est a look at the top 10 charitable gifts of 2013 sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 09 am est no snow emergency for stamford fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 09 am est robotics teams rock staples in tourney tuneup sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 09 am est a criminal who drove a stolen car to jail to start a sentence , a trucker wielding a toothbrush while driving , and a dead man cleared in his very-much-alive wife ’ s disappearance 52 years ago are among myriad strange incidents in the annual & # 8230 ; ski-what ?
skijoring is norwegian for “ ski driving . ”
a skier , usually outfitted with cross-country skis , or sportier skate-skis , is harnessed to one or more dogs .
buy gold now .
the usa cannot help all the institutions & sub prime has hit other countries .
the financial collapse is being sorted out as now gm & ford are finding out gold , silver , as well as savings in the bank are the way to go but be ready to pull your money out and invest in gold .
wait until everything is about to collapse .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ depression safeguards ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] the faroe islands are the frontier for new nordic food faroese premie meets damanaki on mackerel - but sanctions still on agenda for the past two years , it has been difficult for john mealey to even fetch his mail down the road .
honduras police say heiress and spa owner nedenia post dye slain on island of roatan southard recognized as veteran of month sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 19 am est faith & insight : new year is for new beginnings sat jan 4 , 2014 02 : 19 am est homebuyer down-payment aid available sat jan 4 , 2014 02 : 19 am est carlin police arrest man for drug trafficking fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 19 pm est white pine sheriff ’ s blotter report fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 19 am est horsford hears ely residents concerns fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 19 am est ice rink postponed due to warm weather fri dec 27 , 2013 10 : 19 am est man dies in traffic accident sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 19 am est locals can get to top of stratosphere free on january weekends sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 19 pm est bengals bettors done in by daltons dismal day mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 19 am est seminoles share bowdens grief mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 19 am est as 2014 begins , whats next for downtown las vegas ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 19 am est billy johnson on boyd and the orleans : if the wranglers are not part of their plan , we respect that right sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 19 pm est would you pay to gawk at ces ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 19 am est local adaptive athlete hopes to try out for team usa mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 19 am est crews searching for missing man in gardnerville sat jan 4 , 2014 2 : 19 pm est police search for driver in hit & run in sparks sat jan 4 , 2014 04 : 19 am est one of the worst epithets that can be leveled at a politician these days is to call him a " redistributionist . "
yet 2013 marked one of the biggest redistributions in recent american history .
it was a redistribution upward , from average working people to the owners of america .
the stock market ended ...
why you shouldn 't succumb to defeatism about the affordable care act pundits who are already describing the victories of terry mcauliffe in virginia and chris christie in new jersey as a " return to the center " of american politics are confusing the " center " with big business and wall street .
a few decades ago mcauliffe would be viewed as a right-wing democrat and ...
why the upcoming shutdowns and defaults are symptoms of a deeper republican malady the myth of the ' free market ' and how to make the economy work for us private gain to a few trumps public good for the many the two centers of unaccountable power in america , and their consequences what 's the ' chained cpi , ' why it 's bad for social security and why the white house shouldn 't be touting it ( video ) why politicians are sensitive to public opinion on same-sex marriage , immigration and guns , but not on the economy ice loss from the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is rising to the top as the main contributor to higher sea level. can now offer you services at very reasonable rates .
please ask us any questions it was supposed to be the “ bridge ” between sudan and south sudan , a symbol of how two once-warring neighbours can move forward into a new era of peace , a model for amicable problem-solving .
instead , the abyei area remains mired in a worsening crisis which stands in the way of full rapprochement between khartoum and juba .
safe environment > information and referralwhen you dial 2-1-1 , or 1-800-543-7709 , you will speak to a local information and referral specialist , who can help you to : etransform africa : the transformational use of information and communication technologies in africa central african republic + 8 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et sur les zones où sévit l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 671 ) want to use this map in a report or on your website ?
please see the map permission page first .
congo + 3 others des experts du congo , cameroun et gabon procèdent à l ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques des experts du congo-brazzaville , du cameroun et du gabon participent , du 9 au 10 septembre à brazzaville , à un atelier d ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques visant à harmoniser les techniques et à partager des données .
l ’ atelier est organisé par la fondation congolaise pour la recherche médicale ( fcrm ) , sous le thème : « culture in vitro de plasmodium falciparum et tests de chimio sensibilité » .
le cerf alloue plus de 19,8 millions de dollars pour des programmes d ’ urgence au second trimestre le fonds central d ’ intervention d ’ urgence des nations unies ( cerf ) a alloué au cours des trois derniers mois un total de 19,8 millions de dollars au congo , au mali , à la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , au sénégal et au tchad .
cette dotation porte à 47,9 millions de dollars le montant total alloué en 2013 à l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest et du centre .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les régions touchées par l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 297 ) world + 10 others la bad lance de nouvelles autoroutes de l ’ information congo + 12 others evaluation de l ’ action de déblaiement et de dépollution des quartiers affectés par l ’ explosion du dépôt de munitions de mpila à brazzaville l ’ évaluation a été confié au centre international de déminage humanitaire de genève ( cidhg ) agissant en partenariat avec le programme universitaire indépendant small arms survey .
le mandat comprenait : l 'évaluation de l 'efficacité des activités de dépollution de la zone de mpila à brazzaville ; l 'évaluation des processus de coordination entre les autorités nationales , l 'équipe de l ’ action contre les mines des nations unies ( unmat ) , les partenaires d 'exécution , les bailleurs de fonds et les autres parties prenantes ; in response to recent concerns , tcu minister brad duguid said , “ we [ the province ] will not be micromanaging but we do have a stewardship role . ”
he said the province would “ use funding mechanisms to drive change in the system . ”
duguid also emphasized the importance of “ building a culture of innovation and entrepreneurialism . ”
“ some of our institutions are doing a tremendous job [ of doing that ] .
we need to encourage that because it ’ s going to benefit graduates in any field . ”
hamad condemns hatred , violence and discrimination na the guardian reporter newspaper software | connect email marketing | express website buildera fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma lui autentică , demnă şi paşnică , într-un moment în care religiile sunt deturnate de propriii aderenţi şi considerate ostile sau ameninţătoare în exterior .
cartea răspunde cu o claritate deplină celor două pericole . & # 8221 ; next revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressgains by the scoopful - barrons.com jpmorgan expected to pay $ 2b for role in madoff caseusa todayjpmorgan chase faces $ 2b madoff penaltyabc news ( blog ) in depth : jpmorgan nears $ 2 billion deal over involvement with madoff : reporthuffington postsee realtime coveragesee all 97 sourcesrelated bernard madoff mbarali saccos out to recover 1.1bn / - in loans from society 's chronic debtors na correspondent marvel artist john czop to share his art for comics , tv wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est rytc plans auditions for musical wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est grateful mom nominates moore regional nicu nurse for award wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est trogdon makes chancellors list at uncc wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est six rcc employees complete academy wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est riverlink tour of asheville area set for feb .
20 mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 22 am est few in nc apply for free voter id card mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 22 am est ontrack offers ask a cpa day mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 22 am est medical help for the homeless sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est riceville house fire sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 22 pm est i-40 rollover accident sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 22 pm est john edwards is starting a new raleigh law firm tue nov 19 , 2013 08 : 22 am est fed chair , unemployment on tap as congress returns mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 22 am est family ’ trying to pull together ’ after son accused of killing father mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est coldest air in over a decade moves in monday and tuesday mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est theres an app for that sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 22 pm est 2nd suspect sought in robbery at fayetteville bar tue dec 17 , 2013 08 : 22 am est disabled maxton man loses home to fire tue dec 17 , 2013 08 : 22 am est in kennedy ’ s name , memory sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 22 am est greensboro man charged in thefts of 14 cars sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est icing possible in greensboro tonight sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 22 pm est flu shots in demand mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est vouchers , teacher pay on agenda mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est flu cases on the rise in henderson county sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 22 am est review : ’ das haus ’ tells story of families ’ journeys after world war ii sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 22 am est nonprofits hvac fundraiser continues sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 22 pm est new mobile site fri aug 9 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt work under way on two pamlico county walmarts sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 22 pm est school ’ s students focus on how to make lives easier mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 22 am est family : smithfield infant taken off ventilator , breathing on his own sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 22 pm est former nc commerce secretary to announce bid for us house sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 22 pm est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 22 am est pet of the week : sunday , january 5 sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 22 am est caudle attends conference for top women advisors sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 22 am est fifth grader ’ s toy drive a success mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est edgecombe commissioners to discuss collaboration , staffing request mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est board set to choose new leaders mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 22 am est end of life : ’ hospice care is for the whole family ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 22 am est ’ i could hear him hitting him , so i called the police ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 22 pm est will it snow this week ?
sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 22 pm est rais wa zanzibar dr ali shein aongoza mahafali ya 9 ya chuo kikuu cha suza boniface mkwasa resigns as ruvu shooting coach na joseph mchekadona spokesperson for ruvu shooting masau bwire said mkwasa tendered his resignation later to the club management yesterday .
speaking in dar es salaam yesterday , mkwasa said he is on the way to join yanga because he wants a new job challenge .
according to information from yanga , mkwasa is expected to be unveiled today at bora grounds , alongside juma pondamali ’ mensah ’ who will be the club ’ s goalkeeping coach .
stateline — best of # statereads : special interests , politics and a lack of leadership to blame for inaction after sandusky scandal “ 210 rio grande : the epicenter for utah 's homeless ” – the deseret news & # 8220 ; i am young , you are rich , we are like americans & # 8221 ; « previousromânia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress faroe islands crude oil consumption by year ( thousand barrels per day ) وهنا يمكن للمشترك إستقبال الخدمة الإخبارية والصور الإخبارية للوكالة عن طريق الإنترنت سواء باللغة العربية أو الإنجليزية من خلال برنامج خاص على جهاز المشترك . وتتيح هذه الخدمة للمشترك أن يختار أحد الأخبار التالية أو كليهما : تبلغ رسوم الإشتراك الشهرية باللغة العربية أو الإنجليزية كما يلي : gs-lg consortium to buy shares in stx energyyonhap newsgs holdings , lg to pay $ 598 million to buy stx energy stakebusinessweeksee all 7 sourcesrelated stx corporation kuala lumpur , 6 jan ( bernama ) -- para pengeksport malaysia diminta mengkajipeluang perniagaan di dominica , satu pulau di caribbean yang bertutur bahasainggeris , bagi merancakkan ekonominya.di dalam satu kenyataan di sini hari ini , perbadanan pembangunan perdaganganluar malaysia ( matrade ) berkata , dominica baru-baru ini merangka langkah-langkahfiskal bagi mengiatkan ekonominya yang boleh ... ( 1 / 6 / 2014 3 : 58 : 43 am ) des cas confirmés de chikungunya ont été signalé sur les îles caribéennes de saint martin / sint maarten , guadeloupe , martinique et saint-barthélemy .
ces cas dans les caraïbes marquent la première fois que lon détecte une transmission locale de chikungunya dans la région des amériques .
des cas importés ont seulement été signalés précédemment dans la région des amériques ... ( 12 / 20 / 2013 10 : 24 : 10 am ) it ’ s certainly not a & ldquo ; done deal , & rdquo ; but the possibility of a new motel in garrison appears to be very good .
world + 2 others après la guinée équatoriale , l ’ angola contribue à son tour au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique 10 millions de dollars pour financer les actions de sécurité alimentaire dans la région 20 juin 2013 , rome - l 'angola vient d 'annoncer son intention de verser 10 millions de dollars au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , que gère la fao , afin de promouvoir la sécurité alimentaire en afrique .
le ministère angolais de l 'agriculture et du développement m. afonso pedro canga a annoncé ce don lors du lancement officiel du fonds en marge de la 38e conférence de la fao , l 'organe directeur souverain de l 'organisation .
cameroon + 5 others la délégation régionale du cicr à yaoundé établie à yaoundé ( cameroun ) depuis 1992 , la délégation régionale du cicr pour l ’ afrique centrale soutient la mise en œuvre du droit international humanitaire en angola , au cameroun , au gabon , en guinée équatoriale , en république du congo et à sao tomé-et-principe .
elle apporte également protection et assistance aux personnes déplacées par la violence , réalise des activités de rétablissement des liens familiaux , visite des détenus et soutient le développement des sociétés nationales de la croix-rouge de la région .
world + 1 other le fonds fiduciaire africain pour la sécurité alimentaire devient réalité la guinée équatoriale est le premier pays à contribuer , à hauteur de 30 millions de dollars , à cette initiative de l ’ afrique à l ’ afrique pour lutter contre la faim 22 février 2013 , malabo / rome - la guinée équatoriale a fait don aujourd 'hui de 30 millions de dollars à un nouveau fonds de solidarité qui vise à mobiliser les ressources financières de l 'afrique pour renforcer la sécurité alimentaire de la région .
the city of garrison has ok ’ d garrison area improvement association ( gaia ) officials to be the representative for any possible development of the old city landfill property .
finding a new alderman to fill the seat vacated by alderman bill iglehart for the garrison city council is a bit difficult .
golfers and friends raise an amazing £ 3,000 for hospice - buckingham advertiser according to the report , dar es salaam , water and sewerage company ( dawasco ) had so far failed to supply enough water to dar es salaam and coastal regions .
the proposal was later rejected by stakeholders who said a lot needed to be done before adjusting water tariffs in the region .
what if the russkies target the saudis for those terror attacks ?
russia suicide bombing : is doku umarov the kremlin 's worst nightmare ?
letter : lpm offers condolences to the families of the deceased in st lucia st lucia government sues former minister for bad faith and misfeasance the french bank societe generale has put together a financial package that allows ivory coast ’ s refinery to buy crude .
it had been a cliff-hanger for societe ivoirienne de raffinage . ( ... )
as paris frets over its diminishing clout south of the sahara , a major contract in the crown jewel of france ’ s former west african colonies has gone to turkey ’ s limakgroup of companies . ( ... )
india ’ s dharni sampda ( formerly taurian mangangese & ferro alloy sa ci ) has confirmed its hold on the monogaga ( ... )
" the police arrested the director of netpress on a warrant issued by the prosecutor of the republic and which had as motive ' treason ' , " hit kampala , " a netpress journalist told afp on condition of anonymity . " since monday morning , the anxiety has been palpable in bujumbura for all those imprisoned for his work .
in september 2008 he was arrested on charges of a spokesman for shebab has warned burundi it could be next on the list .
the country 's army said it had stepped up security in response .
stuck in the medicaid gap in idaho sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 11 am est idaho history : basketball in the gem state began as a game for girls sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 11 am est boise episodes to lead off new season of ’ antiques roadshow ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 11 am est melba woman pleads guilty to manslaughter sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 11 am est burley crash sends at least one to hospital sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 11 pm est driver ’ s ed fees increase in twin falls sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 11 am est foster , mcleod win titles mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 11 am est short of goal , but not of good feelings sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 11 am est woman shot at lowe ’ s after gun drops from holster fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 11 pm est jailer arrested , suspected of sex with inmate thu jan 2 , 2014 1 : 11 pm est tort claim filed against city of asotin for wrongful termination sat jan 4 , 2014 3 : 11 pm est flu vaccinations are recommended before the peak of flu season sat jan 4 , 2014 1 : 11 pm est population growth for the gem state outpaces growth nationwide fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 11 am est idaho gop trims expectation of medicaid expansion sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 11 pm est judge nixes boise ’ s panhandling ordinance for now sat jan 4 , 2014 5 : 11 pm est pact secures future of historic sandpoint depot sat jan 4 , 2014 1 : 11 pm est we do link to other websites we think you may enjoy but we are not responsible for the practices , or content of , those websites .
in addition to order processing needs , we may send an occasional promotional electronic newsletter with offers and information we think may be of interest to you .
if you do not wish to receive these newsletters you may unsubscribe at the bottom of the email .
the top proponents of the efficient-market theory on stocks , behavioralists , and bubbles . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - obituaries on the bee karabakh is armenian land and no azeri was ever mentioned there : kim bakshi " armenpress " news agency congratulates all our readers , subscribers , and the armenian romanian tvr 3 tv company broadcasted a movie based on " the book of whispers " by agreement on armenia 's accession to customs union to be signed in may the agreement on the accession to the customs union will be signed in may after the sides come to an dmitry medvedev congratulates armenia 's pm on christmas and new yearit specialists much in demand in armenia : armenia ’ s pmarmenia ’ s president sends congratulatory message on nss employee day karen aghamyan to establish fund in support of needy artistsbarseg tumanyan celebrates birthday anniversaryminister of culture will participate in “ armenia and artsakh : christian island ” presentation in karjakin calls aronian hard rivallevon aronian celebrates one victory in beijinglevon aronian wins silver in world mind games next year 300 million amd to direct to development and repatriation programs of artsakh karabakh president signed decreekarabakh president meets with members of " dashnaktsutyun " and " democracy " factionsbako sahakyan awarded with medals the workers of the energy sphere of artsakh armenian representative to eurovision 2014 to be announced on new year 's eve lidushik to sing with tamara gverdtsiteli in crimeaellen degeneres to host 2014 oscars about us | partners | links | advertise with us | careers why are crop markets crucial to rural households ? na daniel semberya obviously , we do not begrudge the fact that tanesco staff do get , and deserve to get , free power .
“ it ’ s time to take this issue head on and deal with it in our homes .
and the best way to start is with new residential construction , ” krist told kwbe radio .
missouri lawmaker wants political consultants to stay out of policymaking for one year the chairmanship of the contact group on piracy off the coast of gains we have already made " . the eu looks forward to working with all stakeholders in the region and an end , she said . the contact group on piracy off the coast of somalia ( cgpcs ) was rite of electwelcome to the webpage for the diocese of duluth office of worship .
our hope is that you will find this page a useful source for resources in celebrating the church 's sacred rites and catechesis in liturgy.as we prepare for the lenten season with our catechumens and candidates , the offoce of liturgy announces : so who are you , chris baker , and why are you on my radio station ?
we have to do our best ; we owe this generation ’ s veterans and soldiers that .
will 2014 be remembered for giving us a new constitution ? na henry muhanika there are signs on the horizon that the year 2014 is poised to be an eventful one .
in terms of overall administration and running of government , a reshuffled cabinet will start its work and we all look forward to see if the proverbial new broom will sweep clean or not .
the ball will now soon be in the constituent assembly ’ s court , and the way the members of this organ will play it is likely to determine the fate of this country .
for sure the assignment to be handled by the assembly is a challenging one , as some of the issues to be discussed are complex and have proved to be highly controversial in the past .
will nationalism reign in the hearts of these key players and be the guiding light during the deliberations and decision making ?
we expect our representatives in the constituent assembly to think beyond the box and come up with a feasible and logical option .
some issues in the draft which are related to election of members of parliament , conditions of service and accountability may not be palatable to this group which dominates the constituent assembly .
will our mps be ready to bite the bullet where new proposals are not in their interests ?
let us pray that the men and women honoured to serve as midwifes in delivering the new mother law of the land won ’ t let us down .
we are at the history making moment and it would be a disaster for the men and women we trust to mess up the opportunity .
pleasecontactannetteif you plan toattend any of the youth ministers ' meetings.phone 218-724-9111 or e-mail at amerritt @ dioceseduluth.org he said that insulin is one of the new products that tsb and its partners exhibited to people who attended the two-day exhibition as part of the mkonge day activities held in muheza district last week . & ldquo ; using the gas for cooking is more beneficial .
we ’ ll demonstrate use of the gas , packed in special bags , for cooking , & rdquo ; he said .
the chairman of mkonge day preparation and promotion committee , lai mpuma , said the celebrations were held as part of an intensive programme by sisal stakeholders to promote sisal farming in tanzania. at bayan palace on monday . the meeting was attended by head of the honorary mission accompanying the turkish delegation mp faisal fahad al-shayaa , undersecretary of the diwan of al-sabah and kuwaiti ambassador to turkey mohammad saleh al-thowaikh . ( end ) silsbee bee photo slideshows on the bee basseterre , st kitts -- cruisers to alaska know about helicopters .
the crème de la crème tour in skagway and juneau is strapping into a temsco chopper for an exhilarating landing on a glacier .
of course , if you pay the minimum premium , which is only slightly more than the fine for the vast majority of young adults , you get insurance .
if you pay the fine , you get nothing .
things may still work out that way .
one has to hope so , for the sake of the democrats hanging on to the senate and for the sake of general trust in government .
trabert , who was on hand at the signing ceremony for the tax cut last year , draws a harder line .
“ there ’ s no need for a sales tax increase .
there ’ s no need for changing deductions or anything like that , ” he says .
“ we have to get our tax burden down and you just shift it if you reduce one tax and increase another . ”
even if it means voting for something that could be interpreted as a tax increase , loyalty to brownback may trump ideological purity .
“ he has little to no impediments , ” dillmore says , “ to driving his agenda as quickly and efficiently as possible . ”
every friday they set up shop in the enerbase parking lot .
they open the blue coolers and let the varieties of peppers , cucumbers and other produce peek out for the customers to pick and choose from the selection .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . kuna : : media a new novel by the contemporary uzbek writer and poet hamid ismailov who lives in london today , is entitled “ zhinlar basmi ” ( dance of devils ) .
it is a story of life of a prominent uzbek writer abdulla qadyri , the author of historical novels " days bygone " and " scorpion from the altar ” , who was arrested and executed in october 1938 .
in the short interview for fergana.ru , hamid ismailov talks about his new novel and shares details of its writing process .
come out of the shade .
the photographers from central asia and southern caucasus are invited to participate in " documentary photography " the moon-faced , a film by nazym abbasov , is conquering the world the bloody right of the first night .
« the burden of virginity » documentary is filmed in uzbekistan for the first time the works of abdulkhamid chulpon are published in russian language uzbekistan : the authorities circumvented a french and german film show at the museum of cinematograph in tashkent second bravo art caf & # 233 ; opened in the ferghana valley .
this one in the city of osh nukus museum : storeroom of arts in the epicenter of trouble vyacheslav useinov : we all are dealing with the reality we do not really understand the city to appeal appellate court ruling on sugary beverages fighting obesity in new york city one cup at a time public hearing on sugary drink ban gets an overflowing crowd until now , i saw no reason to question that .
but as a current university student , i ’ m beginning to wonder if i should .
our parents tell us the same .
it doesn ’ t leave you with much of an option , does it ?
all this basically tells me is , go to university and get a degree , or be unsuccessful .
multiple choice not only kills the creativity of an individual , but it forces us to conform to a set of answers designed in a way to set you up for failure .
not all of the procrastination is wasted time , though .
i saw a quote on facebook by albert einstein , and it states , “ education is not the learning of fact , but the training of the mind to think , ” and i don ’ t think that universities are doing a good job at allowing us to think .
life is long , and we spend all of it learning .
to assume that all the learning much happen with a university degree in the year 2013 is one of the greatest mistakes to make .
if you are not a liberal / conservative & # 8211 ; you should be actively trying to do away with university as it now is , in radical ways .
exec who led pilot flying j briefly after jimmy haslam bought browns has new job fri sep 20 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt cleveland police looking for suspects in shooting death of a man fri sep 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 23 am est university of toledo shuttered amid snowstorm sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 23 pm est zoo , university of toledo shuttered amid snowstorm sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 23 pm est puerto rico man charged in slaying of ohio tourist sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 23 pm est county plows stop due to safety risks mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 23 am est van rolls on social row road sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 23 pm est aaa offers tips for drivers in the cold sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 23 pm est bengals tickets giveaway sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 23 pm est fairborn seniors ring in new year tue dec 31 , 2013 4 : 23 pm est police looking for hit-and-run driver in middletown sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 23 am est get your newspaper anywhere , anytime mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 23 am est boeing machinists ok contract tied to 777x sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 23 pm est robot snowblower makes blizzards a breeze fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 23 pm est northeast digs out from big winter storm fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 23 pm est big winter snowstorm covers northeast fri jan 3 , 2014 08 : 24 am est florida to surpass new york in population fri jan 3 , 2014 02 : 23 am est major snowstorm bears down on northeast us thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 23 pm est group seeks names for dog tag monument sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 23 pm est have we forgotten how to dress for winter ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 23 pm est winter storm warnings , advisories set for our area sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 23 am est sexual assault reported at bgsu tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt france ’ ready to punish ’ syria tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt indian ministry > prayersojibwe prayergrandfather , look at our brokenness.we know that in all creationonly the human familyhas strayed from the sacred way.we know that we are the oneswho are dividedand we are the oneswho must come back togetherto walk in the sacred way.grandfather , sacred one , teach us love , compassion , honorthat we may heal the earthand heal each other.- author unknown the our father " nossinan ishpiminggijigong ebiian.apegishkitchitwawendaming kidijinikasowin.apegishbi-dagwishinomagak kidogimawiwin.enendaman apegishijiwebak , tibishko gijigong me gogaie aking.mijishinam nongomgijigak ninpakwejiganiminanminik eioiangendasso-gijigak.bonigidetawishinamgaie ga-iji-nishkiigoian , eji-bonigidetawangidwagi-iji-nishkiiiangidjig.kego gaieijiwijishigangengagwedibeningewining.midagwenamawishinamdash maianadak.mege-ing. "
in the language of the anishinabewe say " miigwetch " for visiting our page .
its trees may grow to the sky , but not its stock most of the time , placing faith in the " fed put " is a dangerous exercise in futility .
the striking pricedecember 24how to invest in a low-volatility market este lunes reinician actividades principales universidades del paíseste lunes reinician las actividades académicas y administrativas en las principales universidades del país , tanto públicas como privadas , tras el receso navideñolas clases comenzarán el 7 de enerotras el asueto por la navidad , las escuelas del país reabrirán sus puertas este martes y , de acuerdo con el calendario , sólo el 15 de este mes , cuando se celebra el día ... niños venezolanos aprenden sobre robótica en la escuelael proyecto piloto del programa aula creativa me gusta la robótica se ejecuta en tres escuelas de la parroquia sucre de caracas .
el objetivo es extenderlo a escala ...
proceso de preinscripción en la unes arranca la próxima semana el proceso , que se podrá realizar a través del portal web de la universidad , tiene como objetivo la captación de jóvenes que quieran emprender la carrera policial en bolívar , barinas , falcón , portuguesa , apure , carabobo , nueva esparta y distrito capital cerca de 3.500 profesionales egresó la misión sucre este año en mérida la misión sucre tiene presencia en los 23 municipios del estado mérida , entidad donde operan 98 aldeas en las que cursan estudios más de 15.000 triunfadores y triunfadoras en 15 programas de formación estos 3.884 profesionales forman parte de los 22.298 egresados de la misión educativa desde el año 2003 , cuando se inició este programa durante el gobierno del comandante hugo chávez educación avanza como prioridad para el cumplimiento del plan de la patria este año se lograron importantes acuerdos en cuanto al aumento de salarios de maestras y profesores con la firma de sus respectivas convenciones colectivas en las que se lograron incrementos importantes que se han realizado y se realizarán de forma escalonada durante el 2014 ministerio de la juventud hará distribución masiva de preservativos en 500 liceos del país debts of all categories for consumed gas to njsc naftogaz of ukraine made up uah 13.5 billion in 2013 .
cuiva care se luptă cu facturile de întreținere prin drumul taberei , berceni , balta albă , unuia care orbecăie pe străzile periculoase din pantelimon , din ferentari ori din ozana , ar putea să-i înghețe sângele dacă ar auzi de satul francez , din bucurești .
cel mai probabil ar fi tentat să-și imagineze ceva , așa , măsurat cu șublerul și gândit de vizionari , cu detalii milimetrice și ... probabil că cele mai la zi subiecte sunt din nou cele legate de țigănia dintre cele două palate , cotroceni și victoria , pe teme de importanță națională , cum ar fi bugetul de stat pe anul 2014 și ședința csat în legătură cu bugetele ministerelor de care depinde securitatea statului .
convocată la o oră la care prim ministrul are programate întâlniri cu premieri ai țărilor care ...
învăţământul românesc suferă ca un cal de povară .
adică el e sănătos , în putere , da-i vai de capu ’ lui !
trebuie să tragă până cade în genunchi .
iarăşi se ridică , iar e pus la ham , iar i se încarcă în spinare pietre de moară .
în cazul de faţă pietrele de moară sunt factorii de decizie din minister .
unde , bineînţeles , cel mai „ greu ” este ministrul .
uneori chiar cel ...
chit că încă nu a venit sorocul , un bilanţ al mandatelor lui traian băsescu se impune .
nu , formularea nu este adecvată , pentru că ea poate sugera un demers exhaustiv sau unul academic .
ori o încercare contabilicească , obiectivă , de a stabili o realitate .
nu-mi propun niciuna dintre cele trei variante .
eu vreau să spun cum simt eu românia după aproape două mandate , de câte cinci ani , ...
pare incredibil că după sintagma ambasadorului mark gitenstein „ simplul fapt că puteţi protesta fără teama de a fi împuşcaţi ” , ambasada statelor unite la bucureşti a deschis un site , www.banipierduti.ro , în care să poată vedea tot românul care ştie dea un search pe net cum sunt prăduiţi banii publici în românia .
probabil că s-au săturat şi americanii să vadă cu câtă nesimţire ...
inventatorii români şi-au reconfirmat meritele la salonul internaţional archimedes 2010 de la moscova la al xiii-lea salon internaţional de inventică „ archimedes 2010 ” , care s-a desfăşurat în perioada 30 martie-2 aprilie 2010 , în parcul expoziţional „ sokolniki ” din moscova , au fost etalate peste 980 de invenţii din 15 state europene şi asiatice , precum şi din 47 de regiuni din federaţia rusă .
anul acesta , românia a fost reprezentată de forumul inventatorilor români ( fir ) şi ...
o dată cu îndepărtarea lui călin popescu tăriceanu de la conducerea pnl , a ieşit din spaţiul public singurul adversar real pentru traian băsescu .
în momentul de faţă , adversarul preşedintelui a rămas el însuşi .
nici mircea geoană , nici crin antonescu nu joacă măcar în aceeaşi ligă cu preşedintele , ca să nu mai vorbim de recenta candidatură a asr prinţul radu de românia .
alegerile europarlamentare reprezintă , printre altele , şi parastasul de … câţi ani , oare ? 13 ? de la decesul societăţii civile româneşti . aş plasa momentul morţii în 1996 , odată cu câştigarea alegerilor de către emil constantinescu şi cdr .
într-un anume sens , a fost atunci triumful singurei forme de manifestare reală a societăţii civile româneşti , piaţa universităţii .
petiţiile ...
la începutul anului , numeroşi observatori îşi imaginau că de data aceasta ciclul economic global va fi diferit .
pe măsură ce se înmulţeau dovezile că economia sua cunoştea cea mai severă criză pe piaţa creditelor şi cea imobiliară de după cel de-al doilea război mondial , mulţi sperau că sănătatea structurală a economiilor europeană şi asiatică le vor împiedica să răcească ...
în lupta oamenilor politici pentru putere şi influenţă , în goana după putere şi interese personale , în încercările ( reuşite ) de manipulare a opiniei publice , ceea ce se distruge este tocmai omul , omul simplu care îşi trăieşte pur şi simplu viaţa , şi al cărui duşman cel mai mare pare să fie tot omul , chiar când natura îi este şi ea potrivnică . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress comments : - ferghana information agency , moscow tribesmen in yemen 's restive hadramawt province blew up a major oil pipeline in retaliation for the killing by the army of one of their men , security and industry officials said on monday . ( 1 / 6 / 2014 4 : 30 : 37 am ) yemen has repaired its main oil pipeline in the country 's marib province after it was attacked by tribesmen and crude is now flowing through the link , a provincial official said on sunday .
tribesmen bombed the pipeline in december , halting oil flows to the ras isa oil terminal on the red sea .
" technical teams completed the process of repairing the oil pipeline and resumed pumping oil from the ... ( 1 / 5 / 2014 10 : 46 : 33 am ) airport to airport transport : no worries theres a bus service that leaves don muang regularly for transit passengers to suvannabhumi airport as well as a mini bus van service that also goes there .
just go to the entrance at arrival lounge or ask the airport information .
avoid the touts who may accost you or any taxis drivers --there are con men .
at the new airport the authorities have been able to curtail the touts inside the airport and rogue taxi drivers but in december they are back again by the doors so watch out and do not accept rides from these taxi cabs .
go to the taxi stand and tell the counter where you wish to go .
they will give you chit .
you pay 50baht extra on top of the meter price for taxis .
ex-marine to run to marshall bowl game mon dec 23 , 2013 01 : 20 am est power knocked out for thousands in w.va. sun dec 22 , 2013 9 : 20 pm est judges retirements may cause backlog sun dec 22 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est venezuela to end gasoline subsidies sun dec 22 , 2013 7 : 20 pm est statehouse beat : budget is the big issue mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est alliance wants kanawha workers to stay fit sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 20 pm est wvu asks returning students to be prepared for frigid temperatures sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 20 pm est kevin fowler named coo at cabell huntington sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 20 pm est cabell boe to review school trip requests mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est vet center to offer sessions for partners of veterans mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est pbs documentary showcases wvu prof ’ s work mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est wvu asks students to be prepared for frigid temps mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est kevin fowler named coo at cabell huntington mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est caring for your car in the cold mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est boil water advisory for kenova sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 20 pm est — attackers in burundi chopped off the limbs of a 5-year-old albino boy and thoma vyegura , who was not albino , was also killed while trying to protect his kerry : we ’ ll help iraq but no troops sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 07 am est three people arrested for meth in cleburne co. on friday sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 07 pm est the family of missing osceola man asking community for help sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est two arkansans to plead guilty in $ 900m ponzi scheme fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 07 pm est deadline to enter 2014 governor ’ s cup is jan .
31 fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 07 pm est lindsey vonn ’ s status for olympics ’ up in the air ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 08 pm est early voting to begin in yell county tax election sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 07 pm est nlr responds to bike crash thu jan 2 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est was your snapchat account compromised ?
thu jan 2 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est new year brings new deductions for volunteer firefighters thu jan 2 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est raising money for a new arkansas children ’ s house thu jan 2 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est beebe appears in 1st television ad for mike ross mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 07 am est maumelle woman comes home to find car in pool sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 07 pm est beebe appears in 1st campaign ad for mike ross sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 08 pm est ark. art museum faces new challenge : groundhogs sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 08 pm est & ldquo ; those are the two smallest armories in terms of number of soldiers , maj. gen. david sprynczynatyk north dakota is in the midst of one of its wettest years , and that isn ’ t helping the corn harvest , officials said .
folk-murrey is a native of the center-stanton area , but has called wilton home for the past three years .
she attended the hair academy and soon returned to working at spa d ’ athena and at glance spa and salon in bismarck . & ldquo ; some of our deputies in bismarck had received some information that kelly touche redroad was in the area , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; the investigation led them to the walmart parking lot in mandan . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; we shouldn ’ t waive it for the lutheran church , & rdquo ; city councilman dallas morast said . & ldquo ; we shouldn ’ t waive it for the methodist church , we shouldn ’ t waive it for the catholic church . & rdquo ; the center city council discussed the issue monday during a meeting at city hall .
a request was submitted by kristen henke to waive the large hall fee for a daycare breakfast .
the board passed the waiver 3-1 .
councilman keith erhardt dissented .
councilman eric casson was absent .
abate is at it again , but this year they are expanding their toy fundraiser to local grocery stores .
germany 's sandra kiriasis drove to a world cup bobsled win on her home track on sunday , edging elana meyers of the united states by the slimmest of margins . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 9 : 37 : 16 am ) ( ticker : hpq ) " remains mired in a deep slump , " and the stock is thus overvalued .
" plugging a bunch of numbers into a made-up formula is not quantitative finance , and it would be foolish to put any credence at all — much less buy or sell a bitcoin — on the result .
i suspect it 's no coincidence that the author came up with a price 20 % above the market price at the time of his writing , as suspiciously many equity analysts manage to do , " he writes .
brown then takes readers on his own dizzying and frankly long-winded approach to looking at bitcoin .
nighttime delivery offers promise to truckers in new york — and elsewhere anti-semitism in france , the responsibility to protect , timorous europe , and obama 's new isolationism it is impossible to predict what the situation in ukraine will be by the time these lines appear .
will the new " orange revolution " have been extinguished by the cold ?
beaten down by riot sticks or drowned in blood ?
or will it have forced the corrupt hierarchs who rule the country ...
nelson mandela in death , françois hollande in the central african republic , and ali zeidan in paris in france : marine le pen , the national front , and the " extreme right " if france 's journalists are to follow the advice of the national front and give up the disagreeable habit of describing the party and its leader , marine le pen , as belonging to the " extreme right " ( imagine ! ) , it would be helpful if : • said leader , when deciding in the midst of a ...
it was the black hole of the second half of the 20th century .
the most forgotten of its forgotten wars . it was one act in a three-act tragedy that , from bosnia to kosovo , and from libya and syria , unfolded according to the same invariable scenario .
and it was a ...
fino a lunedì , quando ho scritto questo articolo , non c 'era alcun dubbio sulle provenienza dei colpi sparati nelle periferie di damasco lo scorso mercoledì , colpi che hanno segnato il primo massacro di civili mediante armi chimiche , in una guerra che va avanti da due anni e mezzo .
a parte la ...
my response to the turkish prime minister , recep tayyip erdogan the taubira incident : light at the end of the tunnel ?
abstention , a trap for idiots ?
why the front national has no place in parliament .
sollers and picasso .
marine le pen must not be allowed to benefit from her victory madame le pen and austrians nostalgic for the third reich the criminal childishness of those who believe in the triple a on the armenian genocide : the response of a handful of historians and if egypt ( and tunisia ) were to intervene in libya ?
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.burundi réalités l ’ heure semble à l ’ apaisement au burundi , alors que la tension ne cessait de monter depuis trois mois et l ’ adoption en catimini par le gouvernement d ’ un projet très contesté de révision de la constitution issue de l ’ accord de paix signé à arusha en 2000 et qui a permis le retour de la stabilité dans ce pays .
soumis à une forte pression interne et externe , le pouvoir a dû lâcher du lest .
depuis hier , le parlement du burundi a organisé un dialogue politique qui a pris fin aujourd ’ hui autour de ce projet , et qui a réuni des membres du gouvernement , du parlement , de l ’ opposition , de la société civile et des confessions religieuses , avec pour objectif de sortir de la crise dans laquelle il était en cela a été deux jours de débats intenses et passionnés .
mais fidèles à leur réputation , les 170 personnalités burundaises présentes se sont affrontées sans jamais élever la voix .
au final , ils ont tous accepté de réviser la constitution du burundi , très rapidement , sur des propositions qui font l ’ unanimité , notamment le regroupement des scrutins ou encore l ’ adoption du bulletin unique sur les questions qui fâchent , le troisième mandat pour le président burundais pierre nkurunziza ou la révision des dispositions qui assurent l ’ équilibre ethnique par exemple , ces personnalités ont décidé de jouer l ’ apaisement en recommandant de continuer à discuter sur ces points de ainsi , le président du parti cndd-fdd au pouvoir au burundi , pascal nyabenda : & rdquo ; je demanderai à l ’ assemblée nationale de tenir compte des résultats de cet atelier dans les prochaines délibérations , tout en sachant que tous les burundais attendent des amendements de la constitution qui rassurent tout le monde , mais aussi des amendements qui nous permettent d ’ avancer dans la en aparté , l ’ opposition exulte et parle de victoire , même si officiellement elle fait dans la mesure .
le président de l ’ adc-ikibiri , léonce ngendakumana : & rdquo ; nous sommes satisfaits des conclusions qui ont été arrêtées , pourvu qu ’ elles soient mis en application .
nous avons une triste expérience , nous pouvons être la balle est désormais dans le camp du parlement burundais ; il promet de le pouvoir burundais isolé dans son projet de révision constitutionnelle des femmes prient durant une messe , à bujumbura ( archives ) .
godong / universal au burundi , le pouvoir a initié depuis plus de deux mois une révision en profondeur de la constitution du burundi .
le gouvernement veut notamment lever le verrou constitutionnel des deux mandats présidentiels ce qui permettrait au président pierre nkurunziza de se représenter pour la troisième fois , ou encore ramener la majorité requise au parlement des deux tiers à une majorité simple des voix , au risque de toucher au partage du pouvoir entre les ethnies .
ce projet de révision est très contesté , et le mouvement de protestation vient de le camp de ceux qui contestent la révision de la constitution en cours ne cesse de s ’ élargir .
après la société civile , la quasi-totalité des partis politiques de ce pays , c ’ est autour de la très influente eglise catholique du les prélats de l ’ eglise catholique du burundi estiment que l ’ heure de réviser la constitution du burundi qui s ’ inspire largement de l ’ accord de paix signé en 2000 à arusha n ’ a pas encore sonné .
le président de la conférence des évêques & rdquo ; ces dispositions et d ’ autres semblables sont toujours nécessaires car les problèmes auxquels elles apportent des solutions , telles que la monopolisation du pouvoir par un groupe , l ’ exclusion des autres à base des partis politiques ou des ethnies , le respect des mandats politiques , sont loin d ’ être résolus . & bdquo ; le gouvernement burundais n ’ a jamais caché sa volonté d ’ aller jusqu ’ au bout de cette démarche , les évêques du burundi ont lancé une mise en garde très claire contre les dangers d ’ une démarche solitaire de la part du pouvoir. ni consensus , risquerait de compromettre notre processus de paix et de réconciliation . & bdquo ; un diplomate en poste au burundi estime qu ’ il s ’ agit là d ’ un mauvais coup pour le pouvoir burundais , qui se retrouve de plus en plus isolé brockton man charged in shooting at roxbury cell phone store sun nov 17 , 2013 7 : 15 pm est the mother of trayvon martin tells cambridge congregation of her grief following her son ’ s death sun nov 17 , 2013 3 : 15 pm est commuter rail company cries fouls at t vetting process mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 15 am est plans in place for 3-state snowmobile weekend sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 19 am est arroyo named walsh ’ s hhs chief sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 15 pm est ri police arrest springfield man in store robberies sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 15 pm est boston mayor-elect names koh as his chief of staff sat jan 4 , 2014 5 : 15 pm est caseloads ’ stunningly high ’ for staff handling missing boy case sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est walsh reaches out to city on inaugural eve sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est colleen ritzer family decries sjc decision sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 15 am est merrimack valley digging out fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 15 pm est digging out : boxford slammed with two feet of snow fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est westborough man killed in early morning crash sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 15 pm est two artists portray struggle for racial justice at danforth sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 15 pm est local art scene thrived in 2013 sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 15 am est beekeepers hoping hives survive winter sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 15 am est snowy owl at newc sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 15 am est man struck by car in abington flown to hospital sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 15 pm est mbta commuter train strikes car on tracks in avon sat jan 4 , 2014 5 : 15 pm est if you are using " windows " or any other applicable software , and which to receive a notice of receipt , before you send , click " options " and then " return receipt " to ensure we have received your notice insiden keganasan di wilayah selatan thailand ragut nyawa 5,352 orang sejak 2004 pattani ( selatan thailand ) , 4 jan ( bernama ) -- pergolakan di wilayahselatan thailand telah mengorbankan 5,352 orang sejak 2004 , menurut pusatkeselamatan dalam negeri ( isoc ) .jurucakap isoc bahagian keempat , kol pramoth prom-in hari ini berkata dalamtempoh 2004-2013 , sebanyak 9,965 orang mengalami kecederaan dalam 8,540 kejadiankeganasan yang dilakukan oleh puak pemisah . " dalam tempoh itu , 499 ... ( 1 / 4 / 2014 9 : 15 : 02 am ) middle eastiran iraqmaliki appeals to fallujah residentsiraq pm pledges to defeat ' terrorists ' blog archivemore from ozodi.tj имрӯзи сирки тоҷик аз дурбини озодӣ ( видео ) давраи дувуми омодагии тоҷикистон ( u-21 ) ба ҷоми иттиҳод-2014 id-card бигиред !
шиносномаи дохилӣ аз байн меравад зардолуи хушк дар суғд арзон шуд ( видео ) қазоқистон муҳоҷиронро андоз баст radio ozodi ( in tajik ) features & commentary a new president , barack obama , was elected , and a number of national races saw a changing of the guard , but statewide and locally , incumbent was the ri lawmaker wants calamari named state appetizer thu feb 28 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est hundreds gather in ri at mass for benedict xvi thu feb 28 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est ri native to lead naval war college in newport thu feb 28 , 2013 10 : 25 am est patriots set to face colts in afc divisional round sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 25 pm est residents of the town of berja are sleeping with one eye open after a member of the public notified police of the presence of what could be a ‘ large black panther ’ in the castala natural park .
the town hall has decided to close the park area because of the possibility of a ‘ large black cat ’ roaming the area .
although the first sighting of the animal was a few weeks ago , the resident did not notify the police until recently in case they thought he was ‘ crazy ’ .
the mayor , antonio torres , has himself seen the animal .
he said : “ i have seen it and i wouldn ’ t like to meet it face to face .
we are probably talking about a panther that someone had as a pet and decided to let loose . ”
a lawsuit submitted by the defensor del paciente ( patients ’ defender ) details how the berja woman , aged 45 , named only as jg , died at el ejido ’ s hospital de poniente .
jg ’ s sisters now say they too had asked doctors to deliver the baby by caesarian once they had learned of its death .
one of them said : “ the doctor refused and told us if we were not happy with the attention provided , we ought to take our sister to another hospital . ”
jg had admitted herself to the hospital a week after she was due , on december 31 .
cabrillo college engineering program to leave for ayguatemala on mondd why are more and more children walking across the border ?
homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americacentral americacosta ricael salvadorguatemalahondurasnicaraguapanama china 's fm calls for end of violence in south sudan so , if you look at the priorities that the government has set aside in terms of the big results now initiatives ( brn ) that addresses some of the key sectors of the economy .
to him , kilimo kwanza has not failed , it is just starting . & ldquo ; it can ’ t fail before it starts . & rdquo ; so , those that describing kilimo kwanza has failed they don ’ t know what kilimo kwanza is all about .
and that might not be a fair response to that kind of allegation .
but let me say that there is no country in the world that has modernised its economy without first modernising its agriculture .
so , in suggestion that kilimo kwanza has failed is misleading because there is no alternative for the country .
kilimo has to be transformed .
that is where the majority of our people are concentrated .
so if you want to address poverty you have to transform and to modernise agriculture .
he said this country has adequate amount of water .
the specific plan now is for the country to be able to achieve a certain measure of irrigation that is what kilimo kwanza is all about .
you can ’ t say kilimo kwanza has failed because irrigation is not applied adequately .
so , when you plan kilimo kwanza you need to plan irrigation adequately .
the circumstances of the death of former emergency control ministry , the general-lieutenant mirzo zieev are not clear .
according to the official statement , he was planning to take over the power in tavildara , but soon joined the governmental forces and later on was killed by his comrades .
the opposition sources affirm that zieev was called by the ruling regime for negotiations and was shot by governmental troops .
what is the implication of the death of important opposition leader who has done so much to strengthen the power of the president rakhmon ?
tajik authorities seek to improve the image of the country one of the few remaining monuments to vladimir lenin is to be dismantled in dushanbe international scientific community demands aid to professor maitdinova in dushanbe construction of a politically correct pyramid or snapshots of dushanbe summits president of tajikistan emomali rakhmon perceives his wife 's brother as successor outcome of the presidential election in tajikistan is a foregone conclusion activization of hizb-ut-takhrir and islamic movement of uzbekistan is reported in tajikistan yuji toyozato clutches his ringing phone and panics .
he has no idea how to answer it . how could he be so stupid ?
he ’ s owned the thing for two damned months , but still feels like a baby holding a grown-up ’ s toy .
as the ringtone becomes louder , his anxiety mounts .
green ...
generation y workplace : millennials who quit jobs to get ahead charlie angus : " twitter has turned us all into 14-year-olds in a cafeteria " " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . jump to content a new knit and natter group starts at buckingham library on thursday , january 9 .
seventeen-year-old academy product dan parkinson is justifying maidstone ’ s faith in youngsters and is expected to continue his run in the side .
a dejected neil cugley fears the storm damage to the main stand at the fullicks stadium could derail folkestone ’ s promotion challenge . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - copyright policy how do you get to work each day and how long does it take ?
take a look at commuting times — and methods — by state . library may top mill creek ’ s target store mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est county woman a hero two christmases in a row mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est two guards cleared in bothell shooting mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est stop freakin ’ and start talking , marshawn mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est wsdot : new nalley valley viaduct open for traffic sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 29 pm est amazon ’ s jeff bezos airlifted from galapagos islands sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 29 pm est three pharmacy robberies in spokane may be connected mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 29 am est marshawn lynch fined $ 50,000 for not talking to the media sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 29 pm est two pharmacy robberies in spokane may be connected sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 29 pm est two pharmacy robberies in spokane sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 29 pm est woman in walla walla fatally shot sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 29 pm est fourth spokane pharmacy robbed in two days mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 29 am est seahawks rb marshawn lynch fined $ 50,000 by nfl sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 29 pm est new councilman feels ’ perfectly at home ’ in tacoma mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 29 am est nato-russia cooperation – the lights and shadows of a business-marriage next colaborarea rusia – nato – lumini și umbre ale unui business-mariaj © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi realities a crucial presidential election this june , and one thing is clear : it is up to for the east african community as we usher in 2010 challenge for the other eac members is that some of them cannot be said to have provision on proxy voting — voting on behalf of burundians in the diaspora — laws are yet to provide for the regulatory mechanisms on the activities of assassinating the winner .
in 1961 , prince louis rwagasore of uprona won the the then ruling uprona lost to the frodebu of melchior ndadaye , who was murdered there was a general sigh of relief when outgoing president domitien ndayizaye needs access to the ports of dar es salaam and mombasa on the indian ocean coast training to political parties , civil society , and other stakeholders in how to the provisions on proxy voting — the voting on behalf of burundians in the the meeting of the intergovernmental authority on development ( igad ) held in nairobi on 27 december had been intended to bring an end to the bloody fraternal fighting in south sudan . ( ... )
norway is one of the leading donors to the juba government .
and its assistance is also focussing on power dams in the country . ( ... )
the investment fund that the frenchman gilles assouline wanted to set up in juba via the british company gps3 investments ltd may never see the light of day . ( ... ) share reg fees are 5000 baht per 1m baht .
however the ruling is not clear but costs change due to this so use our prices only as a general guideline.bangkok costs are a lot higher than chiangmai.you can have 1m baht company but no and only available for us residents setting up in thailand or go to the section on amity treaty but before you think of starting one you must have an existing lawyers in bangkok , pattaya , korat , phuket and use a corporate law office in bangkok .
if house report = 6000 baht for an old house ( over 2 years ) & 3000 baht for a the security as a company .
once formed the remaining fees are the same as a company .
our fee is 14,000 baht which includes govt fees and id tax code work .
we now offer " o " visa services .
for new companies the new law requires a work permit to obtain a b visa from penang or another country .
if you do not meet the required residency visas . visas to the usa , uk etc we cannot help nor once you are in business for 12 months and you have we do charge travel & expenses if we have to fly to the main centres but we do keep these to a minimum as a lot of our work we do use other law offices .
these may vary but please do not hesitate to ask us. consultations will incur a 1000 baht feebut some lawyers charge 2500baht to 10,000 baht per copurt hearing on top opf your orginal deposit fee at the start .
we do assist all buyers of infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see ministro izarra : 9 % del pib venezolano lo aportará el sector turismo " eso implica que vamos a tener que crecer al menos tres veces de lo que aportamos hoy a la economía nacional , que es 3 % , para poder cumplir con el plan de la patria ... salario mínimo creció 59 % entre mayo de 2013 y enero de 2014el presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , destacó que el salario mínimo registró un incremento de 59 % , con los ajustes escalonados que ha venido aplicando el ... canasta alimentaria normativa se ubicó en bs 3.324 en diciembreel presidente del ine , elías eljuri , informó que este valor representa una variación intermensual de -0,68 % entre noviembre y diciembre de 2013 , con una variación ...
ministro izarra : 9 % del pib venezolano lo aportará el sector turismo salario mínimo creció 59 % entre mayo de 2013 y enero de 2014 canasta alimentaria normativa se ubicó en bs 3.324 en diciembre este lunes 6 de enero de 2014 , día de reyes , es feriado bancario según lo señala el cronograma de la superintendencia de las instituciones del sector bancario listado de precios para vehículos garantizará ganancia para los concesionarios de hasta 30 % el diputado claudio farías recordó que tras el ajuste cambiario , las ensambladoras aumentaron seis veces el precio de vehículos nuevos sin justificación , aún cuando el ejecutivo garantiza cada año la cantidad de divisas necesarias para que el sector cotice sus automóviles establecen tasa de cambio para venta de divisas de pdvsa proveniente de actividades no petroleras el banco central de venezuela y el ministerio de finanzas establecieron la tasa de cambio aplicable para la venta de divisas aplicable a pdvsa provenientes de actividades no petroleras , así como para las operaciones de compra de oro por parte del bcv más de 11.000 funcionarios del seniat ofrecerán información sobre declaración y pago del islr también estará disponible la cuenta en twitter @ prensaseniat y la línea telefónica 0-8000-seniat ( 736.428 ) para que los ciudadanos expongan sus dudas o realicen cualquier tipo de denuncia ministro jesse chacón inspecciona hidroeléctrica josé antonio páez en barinas pdvsa inició mantenimiento menor en unidad de flexicoquer de refinería amuay changes coming to sterl hall sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 13 am est 530 mics for sale sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 13 am est kansans urged to be prepared for sub-zero temps fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 13 pm est catching up : sextons return to abilene after bowl win fri jan 3 , 2014 01 : 13 am est weather-related closings for monday sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 13 pm est updated : sportswriter bill reiter ’ s eyewitness account at lax fri nov 1 , 2013 7 : 13 pm edt city may grant subsidy to pals fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 13 pm est neosho buys truck , ambulance remount fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 13 pm est kdhe cancels water advisory fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 13 pm est blaze destroys house in oswego thu jan 2 , 2014 7 : 13 pm est litefoot visits pittsburg state tue nov 19 , 2013 11 : 13 am est news in agriculture longhorns , but not the bevo kind mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 13 pm est salina nurse gets standing o at ksu game for life-saving effort sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 13 am est call to action fri jan 3 , 2014 09 : 13 am est topeka shelter and organization are helping homeless in cold sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 13 pm est wichitans respond to city leaders ’ call for community input sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 13 am est experts expect gas prices to drop at the pump in 2014 wed jan 1 , 2014 09 : 13 am est session on new standards will be at mayberry middle school mon dec 30 , 2013 09 : 13 am est the mali government ’ s director-general for geology and mines , lassana guindo , has ( ... )
the man in charge of exploration on papillon resources ’ gold project at fekola since ( ... )
here are all of our programs by title .
another great way to find a program is to go to prairie public & # 8217 ; s radio schedules .
log-on and dig deep into the news of the day .
it ’ s all online in our public newsroom . • best-selling author tom keyser , who is not only the best storyteller i have ever met , he is the most efficient and reliable writer in the business .
maybe i could get a volume discount if i register at the same time as my 17-year-old daughter , who also has her sights set on a post-secondary basketball career .
surely if i can handle my seven kids and run a business publication , i could squeeze in a few hours a day for basketball practice .
and three or four hours per day for classes .
oh yeah , and a couple of hours per evening for studying .
hmmm .
so , if you are reading , coach dan , add me to the list for tryouts this summer .
and ask the trainer to load up on cortisone and advil .
in those days , i wrote virtually all of the advertising copy , and we were going to press on monday , so i needed to drive out to canmore immediately to conduct the interview .
as i worked out the details of a friday evening interview , it suddenly hit me that nicholas would be devastated if i cancelled our trip to the mountains .
i told garry that one angle for the ad feature was to have me bring my son to stay at the lodge and write a first-person piece on the experience .
garry thought it was a great idea and invited nick and me to have dinner with him and his colleague peter .
on the one-hour drive to canmore , i counselled nick on the importance of being polite and respectful while we ate dinner and while i did the interview .
windtower became one of my best clients in the years to follow , and i think our initial meeting with nick along for the ride was a big factor in creating a great client relationship .
angela behaved like an angel and clearly helped me win over a new client that would also go on to be a regular advertiser .
as we approached the green , one of our group suggested we just pick up our balls and head to the next tee .
great idea , i thought , particularly since my tee shot on the par 3 had fallen short of the green and a par was unlikely .
9 . you didn & # 8217 ; t slip on some netting at the start of the day and fall awkwardly to the floor , injuring your wrist .
4 . you didn & # 8217 ; t try to carry a queen-size boxspring down to your basement only to find out that there is no way it would fit around the tight corner and through the door at the bottom of the stairs & # 8230 ; and you didn & # 8217 ; t gouge the newly painted walls in several places trying to get it through .
the guardiansee realtime coveragebipartisan budget agreement passes crucial test in us senatethe guardiandec 18 , 2013written bypaul lewisthe deal that put an end to the shutdown , and set up the ryan-murray talks , also extended a separate debate over the us treasury 's borrowing capacity , but only for a few months.us senate passes 2-year budget dealinternational business timesbudget-slashing deal set to be ratified by us senateworld socialist web sitesee all 2,779 sourcesrelated : republican party new town and parshall will face off once more across the net from each other .
for one team , it will be the end of the season .
more efforts are needed to address the problem , he said , so as to fend off the illegal activities taking place in those areas for the betterment and protection of the country ’ s natural resources .
he urged officers in the ministry to obey rules and regulations put in place so as to protect the country 's resources for the benefit of future generations .
the report on the operation was tabled by the standing committee on lands , natural resources and environment under the chairmanship of james lembeli ( kahama , ccm ) .
when i was eight , i was asked what i wanted to be when i grew up .
as a boy with a flawless mushroom cut , a wide-set grin , and teeth that could make a jigsaw puzzle look straight , i was insatiably interested in the world .
i wanted to learn and learn and learn in that order , and on one particular day , a new word i had just discovered tickled the tip of my tongue .
“ i don ’ t want to be mediocre . ”
admittedly i didn ’ t understand the implications of that sentence because i fumbled around for the next eight years of my life as children are poised to do .
yet part of me still believes that i don ’ t fully comprehend the importance of my answer to this day .
more often than not , one can find me collapsed in my bed mindlessly squawking at videos online or tearing through another bag of chips for an inexplicable all-nighter .
hadfield ’ s perspective , nuanced by his experiences in space , reminds us – or me at least – that to live idly is not to live at all .
gravity may feel like it weighs a ton sometimes .
it may be overbearing .
you may want to just crumble in your bed and open up another bag of chips .
gillingham ’ s game at stevenage has been called off due to a waterlogged pitch .
craig fagan is just days away from finding out if gillingham want to keep him for the remainder of the season .
gillingham face teams at either end of the table in the next few days .
but boss peter taylor won ’ t be setting his side up any different .
meritkapital diversifies to latvia - a concurrent view on cyprus cyprus on track , but paying down debt may hamper growth for a decade : imf the acts of the apostles provides an historic framework for understanding the rest of the new testament .
paul ’ s letters in particular come alive in a new way when they are read within the context of the acts narrative .
masafa mapya ya ' satellite ' kuanzia tareha 14 novemba , 2009 kwa vituo vifuatavyo : tom lehman , ilan zechory and mahbod moghadam ( l-r ) of rap genius speak onstage with josh constine at techcrunch disrupt ny 2013 at the manhattan center on may 1 , 2013 in new york city .
( photo by brian ach / getty images for techcrunch ) in a mea culpa published on saturday , the website 's three co-founders wrote : " [ w ] e owe a big thanks to google for being fair and transparent and allowing us back onto their results pages .
we overstepped , and we deserved to get smacked . ”
posted by ana maria ghimis on may 27th , 2012 / / comments off © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi réalités rdc : hrw dénonce les atrocités du m23 avec son allié rwandais c ’ est un rapport accablant pour le rwanda que l ’ ong qui défend les droits atrocités que les rebelles du m23 continuent de perpétrer à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , apporte également de nouvelles preuves indiquant l ’ implication large de troupes rwandaises dans ce conflit aux côtés du m23 . & bdquo ; non seulement le rwanda permet au m23 de se procurer des recrues et de l ’ équipement sur son territoire , mais aussi les militaires rwandais continuent d ’ apporter un soutien direct à ce groupe qui commet des exactions « , déclare le directeur de la division afrique de hrw .
daniel bekele . & bdquo ; ce soutien renforce un groupe armé qui est responsable de nombreux meurtres , viols et autres crimes les rebelles du m23 ont exécuté sommairement au moins 44 personnes et violé au moins 61 femmes et filles depuis mars 2013 dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) « affirme ce rapport publié ce 22 juillet .
hrw annonce avoir recueilli ces informations suite à plus de 100 entretiens réalisés depuis le mois de mars 2013 , comprenant des témoignages d ’ anciens combattants du m23 qui ont déserté ce mouvement entre fin mars et juillet ainsi que des civils vivant près de la frontière rwando-congolaise , dont nombreux sont hrw affirme que les combattants du m23 , mènent particulièrement une chasse à l ’ homme contre les populations de l ’ ethnie hutue dans les territoires qu ’ ils contrôlent . & bdquo ; les 25 et 26 avril , des combattants du m23 ont tué 15 civils d ’ ethnie hutue dans plusieurs villages du groupement de busanza dans le territoire de rutshuru , et au moins six autres à la mi-juin , apparemment pour & bdquo ; punir « les villageois pour leur prétendue collaboration avec des milices hutues le rapport fait également état de nombreux arrestations et enlèvements qui ont eu lieu au cours des dernières semaines dans le territoire de rutshuru par des combattants du m23 .
les victimes sont des dizaines de civils , la plupart d ’ ethnie hutue .
les personnes enlevées quand elles ne sont pas exécutées , sont & bdquo ; un ancien policier du m23 qui a déserté ce mouvement a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait participé à des enquêtes sur des meurtres de civils .
il a affirmé qu ’ avant chaque enquête , un commandant de haut rang du m23 , innocent kanyana lui disait : & bdquo ; c ’ est toi qui mènera l ’ enquête .
et tu diras que ce sont des bandits de la pendant l ’ attaque de la nuit du 25 avril , un groupe de combattants du m23 a traversé les villages de ruvumbura , kirambo , nyamagana et shinda , tuant et pillant sur leur passage .
une mère de trois enfants , âgée de 43 ans , a dit à hrw : & bdquo ; quand ils ont commencé à tuer des gens , nous avons fui dans la brousse .
mon mari est retourné chercher nos biens et ils l ’ ont tué .
ils lui ont tiré une balle dans la tête « . & bdquo ; dans la région de busanza , les combattants ont demandé de l ’ argent à une femme de 33 ans , quand elle a dit qu ’ elle n ’ en avait pas , ils ont entaillé son épaule d ’ un coup de machette et ont frappé son fils de 11 ans à d ’ autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 sont rapportés par hrw à l ’ instar de celui d ’ un homme de 62 ans qui a eu lieu fin mai à ntamugenga car ce dernier refusait de remettre ses fils au m23 ; l ’ assassinat le 15 mai d ’ un chauffeur de moto près de kiwanja parce qu ’ il refusait de leur donner de l ’ argent ; à la mi-juin , l ’ exécution par plusieurs balles dans la poitrine d ’ un plusieurs autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 , sur de nouvelles recrues qui tentaient de s ’ échapper ont également été rapportés .
le cas le plus interpellant est celui d ’ un déserteur connu sous le nom de tupac : & bdquo ; le 21 juin , les combattants du m23 ont capturé un des leurs , un congolais nommé & bdquo ; tupac « , alors qu ’ il essayait de s ’ enfuir près de kabuhanga .
ils l ’ ont ramené au camp militaire de kamahoro , où le commandant a ordonné à ses troupes de se mettre en formation et de l ’ abattre pour décourager d ’ autres désertions .
ils ont tué tupac de deux balles dans la poitrine tirées à bout portant « .
un déserteur du m23 a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait été forcé , avec d ’ autres recrues , d ’ enterrer tupac concernant les viols commis par le m23 , hrw affirme avoir documenté 61 cas de viol de femmes ou de filles par des combattants du m23 entre mars et début juillet , et affirme néanmoins qu ’ en raison de la marque d ’ infamie qui s ’ attache au viol et de la peur de représailles , le nombre réel des victimes est beaucoup plus élevé . & bdquo ; fréquemment , les violeurs avertissaient leurs victimes qu ’ elles seraient tuées si elles parlaient du viol ou si elles cherchaient à recevoir des & bdquo ; beaucoup des victimes de viol étaient dans leurs champs ou entrain de ramasser du bois .
les combattants du m23 ont accusé certaines d ’ entre elles d ’ être les & bdquo ; épouses « de combattants des fdlr .
la plupart des viols ont été commis à proximité des positions du m23 et certaines victimes ont reconnu leurs agresseurs comme étant des combattants du m23 qu ’ elles avaient vus auparavant « malgré le silence des victimes , le rapport de hrw mentionne plusieurs cas à l ’ instar de celui d ’ une fillette de 12 ans violée le 5 juillet par quatre combattants du m23 alors qu ’ elle cherchait de l ’ eau près de son village dans le territoire de rutshuru ; ou encore le cas d ’ un combattant du m23 qui le 15 avril 2013 près de bunagana a accosté une jeune femme de 18 ans et lui a tiré une balle dans la jambe parce qu ’ elle a refusé d ’ avoir une relation sexuelle avec des recrutements forcés au rwanda et en rdc impliquant même des jeunes selon hrw , les habitants de la région et des anciens rebelles ayant déserté ont fait état d ’ opérations récentes de recrutement forcé d ’ hommes et de garçons au rwanda et à l ’ est de la rdc pour le compte de m23 .
parmi les hommes recrutés au rwanda par le m23 , le rapport de hrw affirme que figurent de nombreux jeunes garçons majeurs mais aussi quelques mineurs .
il y des fdlr , dont la plupart avaient été intégrés dans la force de réserve de l ’ armée rwandaise , ainsi que des civils rwandais . & bdquo ; un jeune rwandais âgé de 15 ans a raconté à human rights watch que lui et trois autres jeunes hommes et garçons avaient reçu la promesse d ’ emplois en tant que gardiens de vaches en rd congo , mais qu ’ une fois arrivés dans ce pays , ils avaient été forcés de rejoindre le m23 .
ils y ont suivi une formation militaire dispensée par des officiers rwandais et on les a avertis qu ’ ils seraient abattus s ’ ils tentaient & bdquo ; de récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par human rights watch ont décrit des arrivées fréquentes parfois hebdomadaires de militaires et de recrues en provenance du rwanda .
parfois il s ’ agissait de rotations , des hommes nouveaux en remplaçant d ’ autres qui étaient retournés au rwanda « poursuit le rapport .
hrw assure avoir documenté des dizaines de cas de recrutement de force par le m23 depuis mars , y compris d ’ enfants .
ces recrutements semblent même avoir augmenté au cours des derniers mois , depuis que le m23 a perdu plusieurs hommes ( morts et déserteurs ) , quand la faction du m23 dirigée par bosco ntaganda a subi une défaite en mars face à celle commandée par sultani makenga .
les cas de sept enfants rwandais , âgés de 15 , 16 et 17 ans , qui ont été recrutés de force au rwanda en mars et en avril , puis forcés de se battre dans les rangs du m23 , avant de parvenir à déserter ont également été recensés .
hrw affirme avoir reçu des informations concernant d ’ autres enfants recrutés au rwanda au cours de ces derniers mois et qui , eux , n ’ ont pas pu s ’ enfuir .
des recrutements forcés seraient également intenses en rdc , surtout dans les zones sous contrôle du m23 .
ainsi , & bdquo ; des commandants du m23 ont forcé des chefs coutumiers dans les zones qu ’ ils contrôlent à suivre une formation militaire et idéologique et à fournir des recrues au m23 .
le m23 considère ces chefs locaux comme constituant une & bdquo ; force de réserve « , sur laquelle ils veulent pouvoir néanmoins , tous les récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont déclaré qu ’ au cours des derniers mois , le gros de nouvelles recrues provient de plus en de nombreux bataillons de l ’ armes rwandaise se battent aujourd ’ hui aux côtés du m23 , et ce sont mêmes les officiers rwandais qui dirigent les opérations .
un ancien officier du m23 a indiqué à hrw que les femmes des officiers rwandais venaient souvent leur rendre visite dans les zones tenues par le m23 en rd congo , apportant des lettres de membres de leur famille restés au rwanda .
des habitants de la région et des rebelles déserteurs ont déclaré que & bdquo ; des mouvements réguliers du rwanda vers la rd congo d ’ hommes en uniforme de l ’ armée rwandaise et l ’ approvisionnement du m23 en munitions , en vivres et en autres par ailleurs , tous les déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont affirmé que la présence de militaires , d ’ officiers et de formateurs rwandais s ’ était poursuivie pendant toute la durée de leur engagement au sein du mouvement , et que de nouveaux renforts souvent déjà munis de divers équipements , notamment militaires continuaient d ’ arriver du rwanda au cours des derniers mois .
hrw mouvements d ’ hommes armés du rwanda vers l ’ est du congo pendant les jours ayant un déserteur congolais a rapporté à hrw , qu ’ au sein du m23 , les rwandais étaient favorisés . & bdquo ; on leur donne des uniformes immédiatement , des couvertures et des bottes .
ils sont gâtés .
quand ils parlent , c ’ est comme si ils étaient les patrons du mouvement .
ils me traitaient de vaut rien et disaient : & bdquo ; tu n ’ as aucune valeur dans ton pays « ils m ’ insultaient avec des mots qu ’ on ne peut prononcer trop fort .
ils disaient & bdquo ; vous les congolais , vous avez peut être fait des études mais vous n ’ avez jamais combattu au front . « « selon hrw , trois anciens officiers du m23 , proches de la hiérarchie du mouvement ont rapporté que les plus hauts commandants militaires du m23 supérieurs de l ’ armée rwandaise .
parfois , des officiers rwandais venaient à tshanzu ou à rumangabo pour rencontrer les chefs du m23 , parfois ce sont les dirigeants du m23 qui se rendaient au rwanda pour des réunions .
les informations circulant ces derniers jours nous apprennent même que plusieurs officiers rwandais auraient été tués d ’ autres blessés dans les combats de ces derniers jours , le général rwandais ibingira compterait parmi les blessés & bdquo ; au cours des 17 dernières années , l ’ armée rwandaise a à maintes reprises envoyé des troupes dans l ’ est de la rd congo et soutenu des forces agissant pour son compte et qui se sont rendues responsables d ’ exactions et de crimes de guerre « , a souligné daniel bekele directeur de la division afrique à hrw . & bdquo ; comme dans le passé , le rwanda nie qu ’ il soutient le m23 , mais les faits sur le terrain contredisent ces démentis . « poursuit-il .
par ailleurs , hrw affirme que , toutes les demandes d ’ entretien adressées à des responsables gouvernementaux et accusé depuis le début des hostilités à l ’ est du congo de ne pas avoir condamné ouvertement le rwanda , les états-unis ont adopté ce mardi le 23 juillet , un ton très sévère à l ’ encontre de kigali , le sommant de retirer ses troupes de la rdc et de cesser son soutien aux rebelles du m23 .
cet appel qui intervient au lendemain de la publication du rapport de hrw épinglant le rwanda pour son implication dans la crise congolaise à côté du m23 , est une première pour les etats-unis .
en effet washington s ’ était , jusque-là , contenté d ’ appeler tous les pays soutenant le m23 à cesser leur appui , sans mentionner les pays en question . & bdquo ; nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au mouvement du m23 , à retirer son personnel militaire de l ’ est de la rdc et à respecter ses engagements « , a déclaré ce mardi à la presse la porte-parole du département jennifer psaki a affirmé qu ’ il y avait un & bdquo ; ensemble de preuves crédibles « reliant les principaux dirigeants rwandais aux rebelles du m23 qui sèment le pour rappel , dans un rapport de l ’ onu le ministre rwandais de la défense , james kabarebe , est cité comme étant le véritable chef du m23 .
construction of bagamoyo port to commence this month - govt na malela kassim dr servacius likwelile , permanent secretary in the ministry of finance this was revealed recently in dar es salaam by the permanent secretary in the ministry of finance , dr servacius likwelile during the signing of two framework agreements and two exchanges of letters between the government of tanzania and the people ’ s republic of china which granted 89bn / - to finance implementation of various projects in the country .
the construction of bagamoyo port comes almost in time as tanzania is losing a lot of trade and commerce opportunities because of inefficiency of the dar es salaam port .
it must be difficult for peeta ( josh hutcherson ) , who in the first film seemed to be nothing more than a supporting character .
but i must admit that peeta has found his own voice in catching fire .
he is not a confused kid anymore , but has figured out what his strengths are , and he seems to be the one who keeps katniss focused in the game .
hutcherson is definitely playing up to lawrence and the two of them make an excellent tribute couple , with lots of problems to work out. civilian in the latest in a string of incidents involving the army , a spokesman soldiers approached the entrance of the camp in ngagara , " in the capital bujumbura .
" one of them pounced on the sentinel , yanked his rifle away and shot a week ago and accused of attempting to destabilise the country 's institutions situated just a few metres from the sea and at the foot of the 144-metre-high , five-million-year old magnificently preserved messinian fossilised coral reef cliffs of santa pola , & # 8230 ; la ruta del vino is a gentle stroll through the ‘ vineyards ' of la mata ; open fields full of grapes on the shores of the salt lake .
the & # 8230 ; if you cannot remember the email account you joined with , you will have to contact us or sign up again .
bride-to-be courtney smith is about to marry the man of her dreams , and saturday she attended the 2014 winter bridal showcase to get ideas for the big day . ( 1 / 4 / 2014 10 : 52 : 03 pm ) eccb celebrates 30 years of monetary and financial stability in the eccu see how our people to watch picks for 2013 panned out fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 20 pm est vibrant has a new hq , and its first visitor was the governor fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 20 pm est aca may increase emergency room use fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 20 am est kerry : we ’ ll help iraq but no troops sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 20 am est beloved jerky plant goes up in flames mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est abq man ’ s death deemed suspicious mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 20 am est update : fire reported at sunset foods in los lunas sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est fire reported at sunset foods in los lunas sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 20 pm est firearms in the family : gun safety too important not to teach sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 20 am est faith and lifestyles sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 20 am est local lawmakers lay out priorities sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 20 am est farmington practitioner releases ’ trigger points ’ in muscles to alleviate pain sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est faa issues license renewal to spaceport america fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est oridinance for standards of maintenance is before council sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est it ’ s a girl sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est visitors , eagles flock to abiquiu sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est cubans aghast at car prices as new law kicks in sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 20 am est canine ’ s our best compass sat jan 4 , 2014 03 : 20 am est yes , i mind if you smoke & 8230 ; sat jan 4 , 2014 03 : 20 am est county clerk says she ’ has no problem ’ complying with marriage ruling mon dec 30 , 2013 5 : 20 pm est and indeed life in the household was not perfect .
love had begun to go awry between kurt and his first wife , jane , by the time he was offered a job at the iowa writer 's workshop .
he accepted the job and the distance between his home in barnstable and his work in iowa brought him peace .
he could focus on his writing , and embrace being alone after having fought in a war and raised a family .
but kurt did have his ways of enjoying life and the marsh tromp was a celebration that kurt created when he was in his forties .
it was an act of self-abandonment , a joyous walk that he led through the marshes of barnstable during the summertime .
my mother 's side of the family gathered to partake in its glory , a summer after he passed away , to further remember him .
in our recreation , it turned into a race .
i placed in third , having sprinted through disgusting mud for competition 's sake , to show i was a strong vonnegut .
once assembled , my wheezing family sat down in a a pool of muddy water to relax , as if it was a hot tub .
in kurt 's memory , we ceremoniously placed a pack of pall mall cigarettes into the mud pit along with his old tennis shoes .
the moment felt primordial as we sat in the mud , imperfect but united .
we were there to appreciate him , all his beauty and all his errors .
one of his greatest creations was my mother and when i think of her , i think of her mother jane .
i never met jane but my mother cherishes her memory with a pure regard .
wherever my grandmother jane 's heart suffered , so had my mother 's , leaving the smudged imprint on my perspective .
i 'm less kurt vonnegut 's grandson than i am the son of his daughter , trying to enter a granfalloon without the excuse of ignorance .
being overwhelmed has never been regarded as a great excuse for behaving badly , but then again kurt 's not trying to excuse himself , but express the ugly truth behind mistakes , to humanize himself .
as i sat in the marsh , squinting to keep the sun out of my eyes , i looked at my family .
kurt had done a pretty good job biologically , and we all were laughing .
he had spawned a breed that memorialized him by running through a field that smelled like a porta-potty to then sit in a pool of brown water .
i pictured him laughing as he watched us there and maybe sticking around for a drink .
libya restarts el sharara oilfield but new protest erupts in west to costly promotions .
we have no hidden costs .
all exporters ads are owned by to access markets .
this is one way that minimizes salesreps & costly source for our customers .
it is important you convey to readers your url or accounts at will .
we do have e-commerce but we feel will hold the bil bil of lading until complete monies are paid for shipping & or articles .
we assist and promote one of the best law offices in chiangmai : www.chiangmailaw.com so please if you have a problem contact sumalee jennapa llb & our general law office if you want to link to any of our sites all we ask in return is that you link guarantee if you do not get a minimum of 6 prospective customers we they occur .
when asking us for a quotation it is important to tell us your port of entry in your country and fill address details .
we will quote you up to date full prices and we do have r o r services to the uk but these must be booked prior .
payment is by tt to our company account .
we receive inquiries for various items to be made eg. plastic boxes , metal parts etc .
in these cases we pass this service on to other companies we know .
you can then decide whether to use them or not at your own dicretion .
please note we do not take responsibility for any dicrepancies you may have with these companies but can act as meditator in the event you do have a problem .
we always send out a proforma invoice which will tell you all the shipping and transactions costs .
these invoices if air freight we do reserve the right to add the costs of changed air freight per kg rates as and when they change .
as some of our exports may take 1-2 months to make and pack please note this change .
publishing / export-trade businesses and we can furnish references of exporters and reputable shipping qu : shipping & packing services : we have our own shipping now .
our depot for packing and fumigation is in soi 62 sukhumvit .
all quotes are workdwide for lcl to containers .
we also clear customs for impoters and handle all logistics around thailand .
for all garment exports our packing is at pratunam only for garments .
our turn arounds are quick and we can airfreight within 2 days of your goods coming to our depot .
we handle everything from cars , bike to cothing and personal and we also can get customs clearance on anything including buddhas and art works .
qu : shipping from pattaya or hua hin : we have our own trucks and have our own depot in pattaya as at august 2008 .
please click on the banner : first hotel on petchaburi rd bewteen soi 11 and soi 13 http : / / www.firsthotelbangkok.com / @ 1500 baht -2000baht a night .
we work for xtremestreet wear in brisbane australia & are buyers for this australian company .
see the success they have made on the australian garment market and check one of their many vans below [ xtremestreetwear ] these are our biggest garment customers and we can be your agent as well .
it costs you nothing but we qc and run everything for you in thailand without you being here .
we can offer you more than you think with all our in house services. website may be copied , printed or circulated for publication in any form or part of without business , newsletters are not be published , reproduced & used in any shape or form , in any publication belongs to the respective company / business we market for and we are not responsible for misleading information given to us by these some opposition mps cautioned that there is a risk that the president may end up appointing representatives who are followers of the ruling party .
tundu lissu , ( singida east-chadema ) , went so far as to declare that the ruling party had & ldquo ; abducted " the constitutional review process .
ccm was marginalising tanzanians to suit its own interests , the chadema disciplinarian intoned .
" when we say involving zanzibaris in the process , we are advocating a 50-50 representation at all stages , " lissu told the lawmakers .
" it is not a question of geographical size , but the principle of sovereignty , " he further stated .
the process of writing a new constitution has to be owned by the citizens , but now the ruling party is commanding the show , " he affirmed. opposite grace hotel , has a band plays at 11pm ? ? ? miles late and the drinks are too expensive .
200 baht for a bacardi breeze ( 53baht in the 7 / 11 ) ; 100 baht for a diet coke and 75n baht for a can of coke .
totally outrageous for a pub but then many bars and pubs are charging outrageous prices for entertainment and thats what bangkok is all about ? ?
not recommended by us apart from pool and the band & a few girls to chat too .
theres definitely better places to go and see but the choice is yours .
they do have pizzas and donar kababs and good value ..
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs smart food swaps for a healthier 2014 | dr. lisa young 2 .
start your day with a low fat greek yogurt instead of a doughnut .
grains and starches are not taboo and do not need to be avoided to be healthier and lose some weight in the process .
the trick is to eat the right kind of grains .
whole grains are the best choice as they are chock full of nutrients and fiber .
include brown rice , quinoa , and oatmeal instead of white bread , white rice , and white pasta .
soda contains pure sugar , is liquid candy , and a waste of calories .
why not eat your calories instead of drink them ?
swapping soda for water or seltzer can save you hundreds of calories .
for flavor , add a splash of lemon , orange , or cucumber or throw in a few fruity ice cubes ( pour your favorite juice into an ice cube tray and freeze for flavored ice cubes ) .
8 .
eat an apple or a pear as a snack instead of a bag of chips .
when you feel the urge to nibble , go for a healthy piece of fruit instead of a bag of chips .
10 .
finish your meal with a cup of blueberries instead of a slice of blueberry pie .
berries are rich in antioxidants , fiber , and other nutrients and low in calories .
if you want to indulge in an occasional slice of pie , make it a sliver , and surround it with a cup of fresh fruit .
he maintained that , taboa was not against the government plan but advised : & ldquo ; more has to be done in involving various stakeholders at its early stage . & rdquo ; le siège de l 'onu ( new york ) , qui veut déployer son personnel non essentiel les combats se poursuivaient dimanche au soudan du sud , où l ’ onu a promis d ’ envoyer des renforts militaires pour remplir son mandat de protection des les nations unies indiquent qu ’ elles prévoyaient de redéployer leur personnel dont la présence au soudan du sud n ’ est pas nécessaire .
le gouvernement sud-soudanais annonce avoir envoyé des soldats à bor , ville où se trouvent d ’ importants sites pétroliers .
objectif : tenter de la reprendre aux rebelles alliés de riek machar , le rival de salva kiir , le président du l ’ armée sud-soudanaise a repéré riek machar à bor .
il aurait pris la fuite à bord d ’ une embarcation , selon le ministre des affaires étrangères du soudan du les combats entre l ’ armée sud-soudanaise et les hommes de machar ont fait au moins 500 morts depuis mercredi .
un bilan concernant la seule ville de juba , la des dizaines de milliers de déplacés fuyant les combats ont été dénombrés .
le royaume-uni , le kenya , les etats-unis d ’ amérique , le liban et l ’ ouganda quatre soldats américains ont été blessés samedi .
ils ont été touchés par des tirs , lorsque leur avion a tenté , sans succès , d ’ atterrir pour évacuer des le président du soudan du sud a suspendu de leurs fonctions tous les dans un décret rendu public à la radiotélévision nationale , salva kiir a limogé même son vice – président , riek machar et pagan amum , le secrétaire aucune raison claire n 'a été donnée pour justifier la suspension de l ’ exécutif , mais les analystes évoquent la lutte de pouvoir entre salva kiir et selon les observateurs , le président salva kiir se bat pour garder le contrôle du mouvement de libération du peuple du soudan ( splm ) , l ’ ancienne m. machar , qui avait été dépouillé de certains de ses pouvoirs en avril dernier , avait laissé entendre qu 'il pourrait se présenter contre m. kiir pour prendre la direction du splm avant la prochaine élection présidentielle en 2015 .
des dizaines de généraux ont également été démis de leurs fonctions .
le mois dernier , le président kiir avait suspendu deux de ses principaux ministres soupçonnés d 'être impliqués dans un vaste scandale de corruption .
le sud-soudan fait face à des problèmes économiques chroniques depuis son la dissolution de l ’ exécutif s ’ inscrit dans une large tentative par le président de restructurer non seulement le gouvernement , mais le pouvoir et pa ’ u edwin puni and scopa nz president samoa sooalo setu mua with unasa fala anamani , mulipola sina anamani , avalisa viali-fautualii and rudy bartley from samoa .
the samoa collge 60th anniversary weekend in auckland was an opportunity to pay tribute to ... ( 12 / 23 / 2013 5 : 38 : 13 pm ) bjørn lomborg is the author of cool it and the skeptical environmentalist .
he blogs at facebook.com / bjornlomborg .
export-import bank of india [ exim bank ] has , at the behest of government of india , extended a line of credit [ loc ] of usd 67.19 million to the government of the republic of gabon , for rehabilitation and upgradation of the broadcasting facilities in gabon . ( 1 / 3 / 2014 7 : 08 : 37 am ) hogs and cowboys try to heal up during bye weeks , basketball hogs prepare for the maui invitational , and a touchdown that counts for way more than just six points on the scoreboard theo walcott out of the world cup : seven england hopefuls who could ...
walcott out for rest of the season and the world cup arsenal forward theo walcott to miss rest of epl and world cup world cup knockout : arsenal and england rocked after walcott is sidelined for ...
walcott will miss rest of the season and world cup walcott ruled out of world cup with cruciate ligament injury homehomehot topics ( 1 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnology ( 2 new ) sciencesport ( 2 new ) lifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 6 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelabrazileconomypoliticssport editată de centrul român pentru educaţie şi dezvoltare durabilă , bucureşti .
reproducerea integrală sau parţială a materialelor este permisă numai cu citarea sursei .
a new tax slapped on copper blisters by finance minister alexander chikwana has raised an outcry in the industry . ( ... )
the hydroelectric potential of the luapula river promises to meet the power needs of mining companies in katanga and the copperbelt . ( ... )
the job won ’ t be unfamiliar tokishore kumar , chief executive officer of konkola ( ... ) to assess the value for money for uk aid of funding through multilateral aid programme in fewer countries so we can target our support where it at the february 2008 montreux retreat and to the iasc working group in in tajikistan as well as contributing to the organization 's effectiveness agency of the government and donors .
undp has contributed to policy development and dialogue , and played a key role in incorporating the mdgs and pro-poor and earthquakes , and hundreds of avalanches and debris flows .
in july 1999 , 5 .
you are not allowed to amend the existed article to create a new one or to use the same for any purpose other than for personal non-commercial use .
subscribers to the pictures service are not allowed to re-send the pictures to any third party to be used for other purposes , whether commercial or other .
11 .
you agree to compensate kuna for any loss that it may encounter as a result of using this website by you .
there are some new rates for use of the garrison city auditorium .
meeting the demand for housing can be a juggling act at best .
what does the customer want – or need ?
manitowoc county : 2013 in photos by matthew apgar | htrnews.com | manitowoc man-news | htr media click on an area to find out where you can pick up a copy of aub looks to avoid debt ’ train wreck ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 26 am est area power outages due to winter blast mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 26 am est school delays and closings sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 26 pm est update : person shot in chattanooga sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 26 pm est clarksville braces for brutal cold mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est titans gm looking for ’ right ’ fit in next coach sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 26 pm est its not too late for flu vaccine mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 26 am est harpist bridge kibbey to present concert sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 26 pm est american red cross not just for donating blood anymore sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 26 pm est walking ahead of the storm sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 26 pm est greeneville board to consider sign ordinance , and new codes sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 26 am est dan armstrong and ed kershaw to address county gop monday sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 26 am est storm team 11 weather : arctic air and snow on the way sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est two arrested in walmart purse theft sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 26 pm est kub readies their crews for winter weather sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 26 pm est pedestrian hit in knoxville mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est grizzlies to trade bayless to celtics sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 26 pm est man who would be king of mongos castle : its perfect fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est state of emergency declared for tn sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 26 pm est arcelormittal to reopen harriman facility mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 26 am est no cut offs for residents due to extreme temperatures sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 26 pm est calls to memphis suicide hotline on the rise mon nov 11 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est calls to memphis suicide hotline on increase sat nov 9 , 2013 3 : 26 pm est man jailed for stealing duffel bag of women ’ s underwear fri nov 8 , 2013 9 : 26 pm est educator of the week james baumer mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est grizz win in motor city mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est franklin to d-league mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est weather related closings sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est munchak chose not to return , refused to fire assistants mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 26 am est munchak out as titans ’ head coach sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 26 pm est initial reports say munchak to stay , but titans still mum fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 26 pm est report : titans to keep munchak fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 26 pm est coming nashville eatery named one of zagat ’ s ’ most anticipated ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est vandy , tristar see opportunity in pediatrics fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est goodlettsville offers best of two lifestyles mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 26 am est titans gm looking for ’ right ’ fit in next coach mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 26 am est shoppers stock up on groceries ahead of the storm mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 26 am est ambassadors go to war in uk newspaper columns over ' militarism ' ..
hands up those of you giving up booze for january ?
now those planning a detox new year diet ...
have you ever noticed how many new year resolutions are all about giving things up ?
during the most depressing month of the year , instead of indulging in the things that make us happy , we ban the good bits and suck all the fun out of life .
with this in mind , this january at huffpost uk , we 've decided to twist things on their head and instead of saying no to all the things we love , we 're saying yes to everything life affirming instead .
on the bloghelp the women being tortured in russian prisonsnadia tolokonnikovanadia tolokonnikova blogs for huffpost crimeman to be sentenced for slapping a child on its face during a flightfbi justicelawyers stage historic mass walkout over drastic legal aid cutsguy corbishley via getty imagesdefinitely not calling it a strike has a satirical tweet about north korea fooled the world ?
jimmy savilevictims query ' dozens ' of inquiries into sex abusechris ison / pa archivecall for one single , coherent investigation into dj do you know this chap ? itvwest ham seeks crying fan to offer free vip trip olympic athlete and explorer james cracknell explains why he is standing as mep for gibraltar ( 1 / 4 / 2014 1 : 31 : 10 am ) leek navy officer tom knott awarded an mbe for efforts in ...
indian ministry > upcoming datesyear of the canonization of st. kateri special celebrations : - in the indian culture 's spirit of " welcoming " everyone is welcome to all events . - during our prison term , the administration tried to get me and masha aloykhina to be silent , putting pressure on those prisoners who were dear to us .
now they also are trying to clamp down on activities of " justice zone " by taking hostage a girlfriend of one of our colleagues in human rights work .
the first time vika was thrown into the punishment cell was for a tag .
she was approached by a prison employee who tore off her name tag and announced that being in prison without a tag is a violation for which she will be punished 15 days in the ice insulator ( cold punishment cell ) .
on dec .
26 , the day after the end of the second 15 days in solitary in a punishment cell -- vika was enclosed for a third term in the insulator under the pretext of another absurdity .
as a result , vika now was held for 45 days in a punishment cell .
in mid-january when she will be released again in the squad , the bosses of ik-2 will come up with another plan on how to punish her ​ ​ again for the fact that her friend kira is disclosing what is happening in the prison .
the trust of prairie public & # 8217 ; s members and of the public at large is a high priority for prairie public , and our policy on use of membership lists reflects the belief that we are a public service accountable to the public .
a uf alumnus has put his love for the beatles in a tangible form by helping direct the new ios app , “ john lennon : the bermuda tapes . ” ( 1 / 6 / 2014 12 : 51 : 45 am ) commentary : in south africa , a simple handshake provokes a predictably irrational response metro area to be hit by deep freeze sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 29 pm est d.c. homicides up in 2013 after historic 2012 low tue dec 31 , 2013 9 : 29 pm est advertise with us — newschannel 8 fri apr 12 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt about us and talent bios fri nov 9 , 2012 09 : 29 am est let ’ s talk live tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the pet show tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt stormwatch 7 weather tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the right way to layer in frigid temps sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 29 pm est how to stay warm in cold weather sat jan 4 , 2014 5 : 29 pm est man charged for murder of 51-year-old in dc sat jan 4 , 2014 1 : 29 pm est what to do when the power goes out in the winter fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 29 pm est md. man arrested for murder of dc teen fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 29 pm est usa citizen in a foreign state .
it is accepted by all us government agencies as certificate ( it is a certification of the facts of birth as recorded in a proof of physical presence in the us after the age of 14 .
afdb country representative , dr tonia kandiero said both parties have reaffirmed to cherish the friendship and cordial relationship that exist between the bank and the government .
december 20 , 2013 georgetown , guyana -- according to one of the lawyers acting for the plaintiffs in a civil action in guyana contesting the validity of a will in a multimillion us dollar estate , the document in question is a fake . & ldquo ; the will is a fake , & rdquo ; attorney khemraj ramjattan was heard to tell chief justice ian chang .
pattaya and we specialize in helping foreigners whether relocating or lcl loads chiangmai rates and companies .
this is overseen by our kiwi foreign manager and we can deliver door to door in bangkok or chiangmai , pattaya , hua hin and towns on as at 2013 all shipments for personal every customer must sign an indemnity form to cover our company regarding all personal shipments .
pallets we can supply and will not accept pallets from customers shipping lcl .
due to drugs etc and contraband we will no longer ship and pack goods and take responsibility if you do not sign the indemnity form .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this when asking us for a quotation and you wish to send personal items please tell us exactly what you are shipping .
itemize all articles so we can tell you if you need fumigation , clearance from customs and fine arts depts etc .
we will not quote you if you do not list all items you wish to ship we can help you as we ship many bikes .
shipping crates can range from 1500 baht to 3000baht per cbm .
have cheap then you may find your goods may be damaged as all shipments will be forklifted and stacked sometimes 3-4 times .
we can give you a rough estimate but you need to make sure you give the right dimensions and then allow us to see so we can tell you any changes of cbm you may need .
quotes are just indicative and can change now in 2008 due to the cost of fuel .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this as the price for customs can be anywhere up to 3000baht just for clearance even though you only paid 1000baht on the street and its not antique. you also need fumigation for all wood products and crates .
we mainly ship port to port and then send the receiver of the goods the bill of lading and shipping documents for one to clear customs .
its pretty easy to clear yourself and we tell those who come to us for shipping .
freight flowers , fish etc ] [ shipping world ports of entry ] [ internal transport ] [ shipping motorcycles ] [ shipping motorcycles fcl ] [ bikes to australia packing ] [ pratunam market garment hotels ] [ garment buying help ] [ go [ temporary importing ] [ temporary shipping using a " carnet " ] [ sea personal goods ] [ cert of origin ] [ sourcing goods for you ] [ uk clearing agent ] [ storage in bangkok ] [ pallets for sale bangkok ] [ shipping to usa ] [ importing cars ] [ containers for sale ] [ shipping terms & abrevs ] [ our yannawa bangkok storage & loading ] [ 40ft used containers for sale ] [ 40ft used flatracks ] [ unaccompanied baggage ] [ sending under 45kgs air freight ] [ thai chamber of commerce ] [ foreign chamber of commerce ] [ vat refund on shipping cargo ] [ faqs on airfreight cargo ] the utah professionals ’ directory sits on utah lawyers ’ desks and is used daily throughout the year .
just one advertisement in utah ’ s professionals ’ directory reaches utah ’ s legal community for one full year . the utah professionals ’ directory stays on lawyers ’ , judges ’ , paralegals ’ and court reporters ’ desks and is used all year .
the new underground water storage facility is now operational – and it couldn ’ t have come at a more opportune time .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
the end of the beginning of mending muni finances - barrons.com officials : bellrichard threatens to set fire to homes of attorneys , cop tue nov 26 , 2013 9 : 16 pm est mnsure debuts 3 new paul and babe tv ads sat nov 16 , 2013 3 : 16 pm est ready for a thriller ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 16 am est say hello to 2014s first sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 16 pm est centerpoint energy warns of multi-utility email scam sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 16 pm est ’ short-term care and rehabilitation ’ an exciting change tue nov 19 , 2013 1 : 16 pm est northland copes with arctic blast mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 16 am est buffalo wild wings coming to southdale center in edina fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 16 pm est mn legislative auditor : ’ mnsure needs top-to-bottom audit ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 16 am est minn .
lawmakers to consider legalizing medical marijuana sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 16 pm est where are your favorite sledding spots in the twin cities ?
fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 16 pm est frigid temperatures in states to plummet further mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 16 am est hundreds turn out at fundraiser for umd student mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 16 am est two dead in winona as car plunges into mississippi river sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 16 pm est januarys veteran of the month : james shedd sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 16 pm est plan to continue ringing in the new year this weekend ?
youll freeze your bells off sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 16 am est sherriene jones-sontag , a spokeswoman for brownback , said the legal challenge to that state ’ s law hasn ’ t dampened support for it .
she said brownback has received about 500 emails and calls in the last two weeks , and less than 6 percent of them have been critical of his pledge to defend the law in court . all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines as at 2009 april the committee in 2010 had directed the bureau to conduct vehicle inspection in the country and not abroad .
he gave tbs a three-month ultimatum through the industries ministry to work out the modalities of inspecting all imported vehicles locally .
but mpendae legislator issa kassim issa ( ccm ) said there was no need for inspecting vehicles abroad because what the agents did was merely to fix tbs stickers on vehicles without making any worthiness tests . & ldquo ; we are already in the process of creating a data centre which can keep a lot of information and records , & rdquo ; he noted he however warned people who used ids illegally by registering people who are not ’ nuclear members ’ as designated by the fund he urged the beneficiaries to follow rules and procedures that require them to register legible dependants and avoid illegal use of ids to access medical services al-jarallah told reporters on sidelines of a ceremony held by the spanish would attend the meeting " because the conference will be senseless without the country , its leadershp and the roadmap .
" we will be committed to any other be present on sidelines of the geneva ii , al-jarallah said " i think iran has a very important role in the syrian issue but it is not us to determine iran 's implementation of the roadmap on the basis of the two states and two badly injured in head-on car collision near bullingdon prison in bicester braille was born in france in 1809 .
at the age of three , he accidentally became blind .
however , he had a great yearning to be able to read and write properly , despite his disability .
an attentive kid at school , at the age of 15 , he developed a set of symbols by making raised dots on a piece of paper .
the dots could be easily felt by hand , thus enabling even the blind to feel them and hence , read and write .
the language developed by louis braille is today known as the braille language .
catch the taxis into town on the 2nd floor .
you have to pay 50baht surcharge on top of the taxi fare meter at the end of the trip and make sure the driver has his meter on .. top the departure & vice versa if wanting a bus into bangkok.free shuttle if coming by bus to the bus terminal or if you wish to catch a bus into town to say the victory monument then use the shuttle bus .
there is a 7 / 11 and atms at the terminal and everything is well displayed in english for onward travel by bus ..
manchester burglary leads to recovery of handgun sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est manchester man stranded in snow for two hours after snowmobile crash sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 20 pm est dozens of beachfront owners resisting dune easements sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 20 am est officials id suspect shot , killed by north nj cop sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est hispanics celebrate three kings day mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 20 am est check out flurry of new photos in snow contest ; enter to win sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 20 pm est shoveling snow led to shocking experience for one jersey city employee , offical says sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est testing is crucial for hepatitis c treatment mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est sharing a new year ’ s family tradition mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est north jersey catholics find hope in pope ’ s ’ new vibe ’ thu dec 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am est jewish families gather for a fun day on christmas wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est photo : the cinque family home decked out for the holidays wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est moonachie couple ’ s christmas extravaganza bounces back year after sandy wed dec 25 , 2013 6 : 20 pm est a blueprint for change languishes in trenton video tue dec 24 , 2013 02 : 20 am est bulgarians celebrate epiphany with an icy dip mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est skorea calls for reunions of separated families mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 20 am est officials id haledon man as robbery suspect fatally shot by paterson cop sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 20 pm est haledon man named as robbery suspect fatally shot by paterson cop sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 20 pm est de blasio becomes face of nyc progressive movement wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 20 am est ball drops in nyc ’ s times square , ushering in 2014 wed jan 1 , 2014 02 : 20 am est the dog and cask opens in rochelle park mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est broken streetlight to be cited in suit in ridgewood pedestrian ’ s death to be cited in suit in pedestrian ’ s death mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est intercore execs swap places subsidiary trade ceos mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est morris county will advertise job that parsippany councilman was to get sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 20 am est state watch : dodging the tax man sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 20 pm est kaepernick drives niners past packers sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 20 pm est tca starts slow , falls to st. benedict ’ s sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 20 pm est government shutdown a worry for hopeful homebuyers sun oct 13 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt food for thought : let them eat thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt re-enactors bring a touch of the civil war to burlington mansion sat sep 28 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt the road to forgiveness thu sep 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt kibamba urged members who will be selected to participate in the constituent assembly to put national interest first for the sake of all tanzanians .
yesterday president jakaya kikwete and zanzibar president dr ali mohammed shein received the second draft of the new constitution in dar es salaam .
fiindcă la final de an sunt la modă astfel de articole , vă propun 10 tendințe ale căror evoluție va fi interesant de urmărit în 2014 .
toamna anului viitor se anunță de acum foarte interesantă .
în octombrie 2014 vor avea alegeri pentru consiliul de administrație al bnr , care vor fi urmate la scurt timp de alegerile prezidențiale .
va fi mugur isărescu numitorul comun al acestor alegeri ?
un posibil răspuns poate veni în urma interpetării măsurilor luate de guvernatorul bnr în 2013 .
economia noastră băltește de vreo 3 ani .
nici nu mai scade , nici nu mai crește .
se reconfigurează într-un mod dăunător pe termen lung , cu o concentrare puternică în zona corporațiilor multinaționale , al căror profit este repatriat prin diverse forme de optimizare fiscală , în vreme ce afacerile locale nu prea mai reușesc să țină pasul și fie dispar complet , fie se scufundă într-o ...
pe 6 martie 2013 a avut loc la varșovia o întânire între liderii uniunii europene & # 8211 ; angela merkel și françois hollande & # 8211 ; și premierii statelor membre a grupului de la vișegrad & # 8211 ; polonia , cehia , slovacia și ungaria .
tema discuției a fost o integrare mai strânsă a uniunii europene .
participarea în premieră a cancelarului german și a președintelui francez la discuțiile ...
ideea confiscării banilor cetățenilor ciprioți de către ue și fmi pune capăt oricăror iluzii mai rămăseseră că uniunea europeană este un proiect construit pe baze democratice , cu respect pentru cetățeni .
dictatul din vară impus româniei putea avea scuza prostiei usl și a acțiunilor pripite a acestora , deși instituțiile europene și americane închiseseră ochii la abuzurile similare ...
una dintre cele mai mari presiuni la adresa statului este pentru a crea locuri de muncă .
problema este că nu are prea multe pârghii pentru a face asta .
între alegeri locale , referendum și alegerile parlamentare , declarația guvernatorului bnr privind renunțarea la adoptarea monedei euro în 2015 nu a atras atenția suficient nici în mediul economic , nici în cel politic , nici măcar în rândul analiștilor financiari .
era un deznodământ așteptat ? 1 ) românia este o ţară cu o populaţie săracă şi preponderent prost instruită .
2 ) forţa de muncă este slab spre mediu calificată , cu rare vârfuri .
în programul de guvernare al cabinetului ponta sunt prevăzute reanalizarea codului muncii şi a legii salarizării unice pentru salariaţii bugetari , precum şi a acordului tripartit privind evoluţia salariului minim brut pentru 2012-2016 , dar şi modificarea legii dialogului social .
criză economică mondială , pornită & # 8211 ; după cum bine se știe & # 8211 ; încă din 2007 ( criza subprime ) , dar conștientizată la nivel global abia un an mai târziu , în septembrie 2008 , când a avut loc spectaculoasa prăbușire a lehman brothers și multor altor nume mari din industria financiară le-a trecut glonțul pe la ureche .
deși sistemul bancar global nu a avut schimbări semnificative , ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressgroupon grabs on to asia - barrons.com altostratus clouds are blue-gray or whitish in color .
they are thinner and higher than stratus clouds and are formed by water and ice particles .
togo ’ s president faure gnassingbe used not to be a freemason but he was recently inducted into the secret order by denis sassou nguesso . ( ... )
ferrex plc impatiently is biding its time .
normally expected by the end of the year , a mining license to extract manganese at nayega in northern togo now probably won ’ t be awarded until early 2014 . ( ... )
the contract to mine togo ’ s carbonated phosphates is expected to be awarded by the end of the year .
but the government appears discomforted . ( ... )
after years of haggling over the sudden cancellation of a contract between togo and the compagnie energie electrique du togo ( ceet ) on one side and gdf-suez and its affiliate elyo ( ... )
the latest government reshuffle on sept .
17 saw dammipi noupokou regain his portfolio ( ... )
all rights reserved | view full site how to turn the payday lending anchor into a lifeline | debbie matz to see a television advertisement for a business offering payday loans ( technically , " deposit-advance loans " ) is to see payday loans advertised as a lifeline : a way for a financially strapped family to cover an unexpected expense -- like repairing a car to get to work or fixing the furnace to get through winter .
tucked away in a corner of the dodd-frank act is language authorizing demonstration programs ( overseen by the secretary of the treasury ) to provide low-cost , small loans that serve as an alternative to payday loans .
the us supreme court called a halt to gay marriages in utah on monday , pending an appeal by the state to overturn a lower court 's ruling that its ban on same-sex unions was constitutional .
ford says he is " very pleased & # 039 ; with the cleanup progress so far # citystorm " we need the provincial government to help out with this efforts " ford on the ice storm clean up emily & # 039 ; s wedding dress washed up on the shore , but where is she ?
new # revenge right now on city !
and she claimed not to be a " gamer " ... watch the first # crazyones of the new year tonight at 9pm et / pt 8 : 30pm : jeff settles into a new job at greendale and adjusts to the expectations of being on staff .
thousands fail to complete std vii due to pregnancy , truancy - report na the guardian reporter for his part , the chairman for ulanga district council , furaha lilongeri said there is a need to come up with a strategy against pregnancy and truancy in schools .
merkel fractures pelvis in ski accident ; doctors say to restbloombergmerkel in skiing accident , cancels visitstehran timeshighly cited : german leader angela merkel injured while skiingusa todayfrom germany : merkel to rule from couch after ski accidentthe local.dein depth : why angela merkel tests herself on the ski slopeschristian science monitorsee all 277 sourcesrelated angela merkel us factory orders up on planes , business spendingabc newsfactory orders up in nov. on aircraft demandusa todaysee all 59 sourcesrelated factories imagine what we call & ldquo ; national security & rdquo ; as , at heart , a proselytizing warrior religion .
it has its holy orders .
it has its sacred texts ( classified ) .
it has its dogma and its warrior priests .
it has its sanctified promised land , known as & ldquo ; the homeland . & rdquo ; it has its seminaries , which we call think tanks .
it is a monotheistic faith in that it broaches no alternatives to itself .
it is manichaean in its view of the world .
as with so many religions , its god is an eye in the sky , an all-seeing being who knows your secrets .
they issue the equivalent of fatwas against those they proclaim to be their enemies .
they have a set of sharia-like laws , both immutable and flexible .
punishments for breaking them may not run to stoning to death or the cutting off of hands , but they do involve the cutting off of lives .
put all this together and what you have is a description of a militant organization whose purpose is to carry out a washington version of global jihad , a perpetual war in the name of the true faith .
but it & # 8217 ; s not & # 8220 ; advertising & # 8221 ; as we think of it , so how can it work ?
newly appointed igp pledges war on crime na correspondent david the two gave the plea shortly after being sworn in by president jakaya kikwete at the state house in dar es salaam yesterday .
the deputy igp is a new post in the force .
“ most state agency directors are liars when they ’ re sitting in front of the committee and talking about the budget , ” hutchings said at the news conference .
but with becker , hutchings said , “ it wasn ’ t just , ‘ give us the money and don ’ t ever talk to us again . ’ ”
rakhmatullaev said the decision was made at the request of the health minister .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ depression could come ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] what are the main forms or shapes of the aurora ?
“ ас атасы – нан ” – bread is the head of all foods , kazakh proverb in april , the most likely emergencies will be due to floods and flash floods , particularly in yakhsu and kizilsu rivers .
tajikistan eu and who support of the improvement of pediatric care services ifrc allocates dref funding to respond to small-scale emergencies in kazakhstan and georgia .
algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifies and the award for ' best island of the year ' goes to niijima don 't cry for the falklands , argentina .
just let the islanders be algeciras bunker fuel premiums plunge in 2013 as competition intensifiesplatts 21 : 15 30-dec-13 homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newseditorial & opinionangling clubclassifiedscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery new regulations for the running of public water company galasa are nothing but a smokescreen for a rise in water costs , the socialist psoe party in almería & # 8230 ; many on our books at present .
pattaya has many superstores and supermarkets to choose from .
theres plenty of atms & you can access money anywhere via a meal .
also thai / european food served but has the best deli meats and cheeses & kiwi lamb chops , roasts , kiwi mixed frozen veges etc in pattaya .
the steaks are the best in pattaya and cheap --- where else in thailand can you buy fillet steaks for 50 baht each ? ? ? ?
veges are dearer than the markets but they have to pay rent and bills so its understandable. theres 2 tescos in pattaya and these superstores have everything .
one is on the way to the bkk / pattaya bus station on pattaya nua ( middle ) and the other on the sukhumvit highway going north .
they sell everything from food to appliances like the rest .
ideal for bulk buying .
remember too they have shops from burger king to big macs as well on central pattaya roads and 2nd road have food bars you pick the food then help yourself and eat there or take away .
not very nice decour inside but was one of the first supermarkets in pattaya and is ok and convenient .
the infamous pattaya north soi 6 a must when you come to pattaya as this is the soi where all the girls / kratoys hang out and the most colourful place in pattaya .
near the end is " jack & tars " the beer bar / food looking towards pattaya beach road .
if you have a restaurant in pattaya and want a review just email us and we advertise your restaurant or buffet on our website for free .
just check out the above restaurant review and we will do the same for you .
conditions apply more [ pattaya restaurants : 1 ] [ pattaya restaurants : 2 ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya english breakfast & review ] [ pattaya top seafood review ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buses from suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya bus times suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ suvarnabhumi all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines as at 2009 april & compare to pattaya [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] the striking pricedecember 17options crowd bets on march fed taper the " gma " co-host came out publicly in december 2013 , thanking her " long time girlfriend " in a facebook post in which she reflected on her year .
correction : laign is to the right of robin roberts in the photo , not to roberts ' right as the article originally stated .
with a year left for every eligible tanzanian to get a national identity , dar es salaam region will complete the biometric stage on sunday . & ldquo ; after getting the information we work on it and later the ids are printed and verified by authorities , & rdquo ; she explained .
the verification is meant to ensure that people getting the ids are tanzanian citizens and not illegal immigrants , she said , noting : & ldquo ; for kinondoni district , we will complete the biometric process next week .
but we cannot say when the exercise will start in other regions since it can only do so after the ids for dar es salaam – which is a pilot area – are ready . & rdquo ; the aim was to speed up the issuance of ids to all tanzanian citizens before the general elections in 2015 .
however , the dar es salaam region pilot area has so far taken 11 months to complete the biometric process .
he advised nida to adjust the speed of registering as well as recording people ’ s identification particulars .
strategy , hopes from a new reshuffle daunting na abdallah bawazir however he said the president should now bring in people who can really serve to the end of his term in office .
the purpose of this office is to ensure the smooth and effective operation of the pastoral center officesinservice to the priests , deacons and laity of the diocese .
bangui 's crowded airport camp : a microcosm of the car conflict you might also wonder how the top timers can be so bullish in the face of the additional very dark storm clouds that are now brewing on the horizon .
after all , the fed has to walk a tightrope in coming months as it determines how and when to taper , with dire consequences for getting it even slightly wrong .
and washington has merely kicked the can down the road : by no later than january , in the case of the budget , and no later than february in the case of the debt ceiling , congress and the president must come to agreement .
and yet all recent experience suggests this will be next to impossible .
by way of answer , i 'll let the top timers speak for themselves .
the following are excerpts from the most recent client communications from a few of the top performers : note that the best timers ' bullishness applies to the intermediate term of several months , if not years — and a short-term correction could occur at any time .
in fact , one of the advisors in the top quartile of timers — bob brinker , of bob brinker 's marketimer — says that the market is due for such a pullback , and that investors shouldn 't put new money to work in the stock market until such a pullback .
how can i function in this paralysis ?
how can i vote , how can i support initiatives , how can i engage in debate as a participant rather than a bystander ?
how can i act ?
and is it not ironic that by questioning the disease i reveal its very symptoms ?
the easy answer is to start accepting the easy answers , but to accept that is unconscionable .
because an easy answer is not an answer at all .
i know that .
i get it .
high court to set ruling date on kinana-msigwa defamation suit na karama kenyunko in the suit kinana wants 350m / - for being defamed as compensation damage for being called an elephant poacher by the legislator .
in a written statement of defence filed at the high court ’ s dar es salaam district registry by his advocate peter kibatala , msigwa denied all the claims advanced by the ccm leader .
in the suit , defendant msigwa is alleged to have accused kinana of being an elephant poacher and a criminal dealer in ivory , including illegal transportation and exportation of ivory .
kinana is also seeking orders of the court to direct the mp to publish apologies in two daily english newspapers and two other kiswahili papers and recant the claims involved .
108 journalists killed in 2013 to test un day to end impunity world la multiplication des situations d & # 039 ; urgence pèse lourdement sur le système humanitaire , affirme amos 2 janvier 2014 – « l 'année 2013 a réellement mis à l 'épreuve le système humanitaire international et rien ne laisse présager qu 'il en sera autrement en 2014 » , a affirmé jeudi , au cours d 'une conférence de presse à new york , la secrétaire générale adjointe aux affaires humanitaires .
world + 6 others la corruption appauvrit les sociétés de l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest dakar , 5 janvier 2014 ( irin ) - dans de nombreux pays d ’ afrique de l ’ ouest , qui affichent déjà des indicateurs de développement alarmants , la corruption généralisée gangrène des services publics de piètre qualité .
d ’ après les observateurs , les pots-de-vin menacent la bonne gouvernance et font sombrer de plus en plus de gens dans la pauvreté .
un economic and social commission for asia and the pacific the asia-pacific region is by far the most disaster-prone region in the world .
a multitude office of social apostolateplease click here for information on jrlc day on the hill , to be heldfebruary 17 , 2011at rivercenter in st. paul .
‘ la vendimia ’ by francisco orozco saenz was the winner of the 1st wine harvest in the axarquia photo contest .
a panel of judges chose the picture because it shows the “ extreme difficulty ” of the wine harvest in the axarquia area .
‘ la llegada del arriero ’ ( the arrival of the mule driver ) & # 8230 ; the lawmaker wants the government to clarify when exactly it will pay the money so as to clear land disputes in the area .
a laptop and a television were stolen in a burglary in richmond road , towcester .
items that once belonged to pop icon michael jackson are to go on display in the equatorian guinean capital in a pr operation by " teodorin " obiang . ( ... )
the american oil company vaalco has named a new managing director with an untypical ( ... )
“ this is going to be a large tax cut for the large utilities and telecommunication companies and actually harm everyone else in terms of cuts to services and higher property tax rates , ” blatt says .
the new south looks uncomfortably like the old south , as industry research in the region - a key component of economic and wage growth - lags behind the rest of the country , a new report shows .
andré bourgeot : & bdquo ; l 'opération serval risque de se transformer en guérilla « andré bourgeot , anthropologue , directeur de recherche émérite au cnrs et le président françois hollande est arrivé le 2 février à sévaré pour une visite éclair au mali au cours de laquelle il appellera les pays africains à prendre le relais de la france auprès de l 'armée malienne , après trois semaines " je vais au mali ( ... ) pour dire à nos soldats tout notre soutien , tous nos encouragements , toute notre fierté , ( ... ) pour permettre que les africains viennent le plus vite possible nous rejoindre et leur dire que nous avons besoin slateafrique - l ’ intervention des troupes françaises au mali est-elle de andré bourgeot - rapidement ?
certes pas !
l 'intervention militaire française a d 'une part stoppé l 'avancée des groupes armés djihadistes qui ont tenté de prendre sévaré , où il y a un aéroport international , et d 'autre part libéré l 'objectif est bien de rétablir la paix qui ne sera effective que lors de la reconquête totale de l 'intégrité du territoire national : cela demandera du temps d 'autant que , pour l 'heure , se sont essentiellement les militaires français qui sont en première ligne , avec une armée malienne affaiblie et dont la chaîne de slateafrique - est-ce que l 'enthousiasme des populations que vous avez observé au mali , par rapport à cette intervention , va durer ?
a.b. -globalement , les réactions sont favorables , en effet .
les populations du nord libérées du joug et de la terreur djihadiste reprennent vie et expriment a bamako , des vendeurs de petits drapeaux tricolores s 'activent sur les trottoirs de la capitale et reprennent le commerce informel , tricolore cette fois : les petits drapeaux qui flottent sont même achetés .
pour autant , est-ce maures et arabes ) manifeste son soulagement et sa joie .
ce qui ne veut pas dire que les groupes armés djihadistes ne disposeront pas , le cas échéant , de relais indépendantiste et laïc , connaît un sérieux déclin , depuis quelques semaines .
il s 'est fait d 'abord bouté hors de gao par le mujao ( mouvement pour l 'unicité du jihad en afrique de l 'ouest ) , puis de ménaka toujours par ce même il tente de rebondir en proposant ses services à l 'armée française , arguant du fait suivant : être des combattants aguerris et de bons connaisseurs de la qui ne renvoie à aucun fondement géographique et encore moins historique. sillonné par les pasteurs nomades maures .
berabich représente une superficie de 380 kilomètres carrés environ .
il souffre d 'un important déficit de légitimité & bdquo ; il est peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide « a.b -tout dépend de ce que vous entendez par & bdquo ; nord « ?
si vous y intégrez toute la partie saharienne ( celle des montagnes , des grottes des dunes , des canyons ) ce qui est convenable et conforme au territoire national du mali , alors il est fort peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide .
s 'emparer des villes de tombouctou , gao , kidal est à la portée des militaires .
mais la partie saharienne , stricto sensu sera une & bdquo ; autre paire de manches « : la slateafrique - l 'armée malienne est-elle capable de jouer un rôle dans la que j 'ai évoquées plus haut .
elle est profondément désorganisée voire divisée , mal équipée .
est-elle fermement motivée ?
récemment les militaires maliens ne recevaient même pas la nourriture nécessaire à la satisfaction de leurs besoins slateafrique - le capitaine sanogo conserve-t-il une grande influence dans le a.b. -il brille actuellement par son mutisme .
on dit qu 'il est au front .
l 'intervention militaire française a contribué à reléguer son influence à la périphérie des enjeux politiques , mais il peut ne pas avoir dit son dernier mot .
cette intervention a conforté la position du président par intérim , dioncounda traoré , au moment où des manifestants à bamako réclamaient à cor et à le pouvoir tricéphale , avant le coup de force perpétré par le capitaine sanogo lors de la destitution de l 'ex-premier ministre cheikh modibo diarra , est devenu bicéphale , puis , pour l ’ heure monocéphale , compte tenu du fait que diango cissoko , actuel premier ministre n 'a pas d 'ambition politique , contrairement à son prédécesseur et se positionne comme grand commis de l 'etat .
slateafrique - la france pourra-t-elle longtemps rester seule en première ligne ?
ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ apparaître comme un pays qui mène une opération a.b. -c 'est déjà fait .
une partie de la presse algérienne l 'accuse de nigériens ) d 'impérialisme .
quoi qu 'il en soit , y a-t-il des etats qui tous les etats défendent des intérêts politiques et économiques .
le mali recèle de prometteuses ressources extractives ( pétrole et gaz dans le site de taoudenni à cheval sur la mauritanie , le mali et l 'algérie , de l 'uranium dans manganèse , du phosphate ...
qui serait insensible à ces richesses ?
d 'autant que d 'autres puissances montantes , telle que la chine est réceptive à ces données .
enfin , le niger voisin recèle , lui , des richesses minières monnaie sonnante : areva est une multinationale française et la france a un fort besoin en uranium : slateafrique - l ’ algérie peut-elle accepter une présence de la france à long éradiquer les groupes djihadistes , l 'algérie peu en être satisfaite .
mais ces & bdquo ; fous de dieu « vont se réfugier où ?
dans les pays riverains , donc potentiellement en algérie .
même si celle-ci a décidé de fermer ses frontières .
comment peut-on & bdquo ; fermer « 1.400 km de frontières communes à des groupes expérimentés dans les activités criminelles , les trafics de toute nature ( cocaïne , cannabis , armes , êtres humains , etc . ) qui ont des relais , ou des complicités dans l 'ensemble de l 'espace sahélo-saharien et qui de surcroît flirtent slateafrique - les troupes ouest-africaines sont elles à même de prendre le a.b. -non , je ne le pense pas : il faudra du temps , de l 'organisation , de l 'argent et que le septentrion soit sécurisé : encore du temps ...
slateafrique - les troupes de certains pays africains , notamment le nigeria , sont réputées pour leur grande brutalité avec les populations civiles .
leur entrée dans le conflit ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ entraîner une radicalisation d ’ une a.b. -l 'intervention militaire vise à modifier les rapports de force militaires mais elle ne résout aucun problème politique et elle en pose même ou en posera d 'autres , probablement dans un laps de temps pas très éloigné .
si slateafrique - s ’ ils quittent leurs fiefs du nord-mali , les djihadistes ne risquent-ils pas de se développer des bases dans tous les pays de la région ?
a.b. -oui , ils vont se replier avec armes et bagages nécessaires , par petits groupes dans certains pays riverains où il existe déjà des & bdquo ; structures d 'accueil « .
il n 'est pas impossible que ces déplacements prennent une forme plus citadine et se manifestent donc dans des villes où des intérêts français sont bien connus et slateafrique - des pays comme le sénégal ou le burkina faso ne risquent-ils a.b. -sans doute moins que le niger et la mauritanie , mais le & bdquo ; moins « dans le slateafrique - si les troupes françaises et africaines parviennent à reprendre le contrôle du nord , sera-t-il possible d ’ organiser rapidement des a.b. -que faut-il entendre par contrôle du nord ?
quid des populations déplacées estimées à environ 200.000 et réfugiées dont le chiffre de 450.000 est je n 'imagine pas que des élections puissent se tenir au vu d 'une seule reconquête militaire des régions du nord du mali .
sauf si l 'on veut des élections bradées , faussement démocratiques qui ne feront que reposer de bien plus graves problèmes : la démocratie , si elle a un sens , ne souffre pas de bricolage ou de conception artisanale , laxiste , et frivole du politique : les © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedsmalltownpapers - the hansford county reporter-statesman , spearman texas the hansford county reporter-statesman , spearman texas this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle to indicate the magnitude of the problem , there are 29 roadblocks between dar es salaam and the zambian boarder .
the cost associated with the inefficiency of dar es salaam port is estimated to reach a value in excess of seven per cent of national gdp .
the fiscal adjustment planned by the government can be justified as a means to maintain tanzania ’ s current risk of debt distress at low level .
compared to the recent past , the initial fiscal deficit has deteriorated and the level of public debt has increased to a value in excess of 40 per cent of gdp at the end of 2012 / 2013.with a higher promotion of non concessional loans .
central louisiana has big projects in the works for 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 14 am est cenla has numerous major projects in the works for 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est police and fire briefs sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 14 pm est mud people visit ponchatoula sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 14 am est ’ great return ’ on investment sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 14 am est eyes on the teche kicks off sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 14 am est citys first baby of the year born on second day fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 14 pm est grinding to a close thu jan 2 , 2014 3 : 14 pm est doctors group donates to inmates mon dec 30 , 2013 3 : 14 pm est nj already on the alert for pimps , other sex traffickers at super bowl 2014 mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 14 am est how some get rich selling bogus clicks ; wearable tech is in fashion jpso investigating metairie shooting mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 14 am est man found shot to death on street in opelousas sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est 2013 was the year of unstoppable stocks sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est fur seeks to promote animal adoptions sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est arnaudville water is again safe to drink sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 14 am est lsu season goes down as bummer fri jan 3 , 2014 05 : 14 am est lsu health program educates youth using ’ drunk goggles ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 14 am est calvary cruises to division iii state championship mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 14 am est calvary set for premiere in superdome mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 14 am est honda vfr 400cc in konica / minolta colours remolded in thailand tyres and new single or twin yoshimura can .
all bikes on this page were made in chiangmai by a thai owned shop .
you will see how the thais can make superb bikes .
check also pics of the pattaya bike week on choppers .
[ uk manufacturer who makes lightweight parts for all vfrs and cbrs your free classified ad now [ post ad ] promote your company in asia exports ] if you want to come to sunscreen / lipbalm : antarctica is the driest and sunniest continent on earth binoculars : you may not get close enough to pet the wildlife the previous record low was set on both 1894 and 1988 .
“ everyday activities may not be feasible , " gary schenkel of the city ’ s office of emergency management and communications told the sun-times .
art and music mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 11 am est giving a little tlc sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 11 am est hikers are rescued in volcano sat jan 4 , 2014 06 : 11 am est decision expected next week on scaled-down condo in kakaako fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 11 pm est banished for questioning the gospel of guns sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 11 am est new zealand prime minister is obama ’ s new golf buddy fri jan 3 , 2014 08 : 11 am est activity in kula suggests michelle obama is on maui mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 11 am est vehicle , body discovered in kahakuloa sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 11 am est biif girls basketball : rising to the occasion sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 11 pm est some invasives you dont want to grow sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 11 am est home vitrina cu cărți românia post 1989 & # 8211 ; catherine durandin şi zoe petre posted by cezar dobre on apr 5th , 2011 / / comments off prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate în punctul de plecare apăsate de crimele comunismului , dar luminoase în perspectiva unei sosiri presupuse într-o lume liberă şi prosperă .
doamna catherine durandin impresionează pentru faptul că , pe lângă o cunoaştere aprofundată a realităţilor istorice ale poporului nostru , a dat dovadă de o mare atenţie şi sensibilitate atunci când a pus problema procesului de integrare în nato şi uniunea europeană .
dacă procesul integrării a pus mai puţine probleme şi datorită maşinii de putere americane care a funcţionat sprijinită de propriul „ think-tank ” , procesul de integrare în ue este mai complex şi aceasta datorită faptului că românia este o ţară europeană şi se poate irita numai la faptul că trebuie să demonstreze acest lucru în faţa comisiei europene .
în capitolele următoare ale cărţii , doamna zoe petre , o excepţională cunoscătoare a lumii antice , dar și a istoriei poporului român , remarca cu privire la distrugerea simbolurilor puterii comuniste în decembrie 1989 că lozinca „ jos comunismul ” este greu de crezut că a fost o provocare a kgb-ului – care , logic , nu putea adopta un astfel de slogan .
dacă nu a fost prima , cel puţin a fost printre primii analişti care a prezentat cu adevărat o realitate dureroasă pentru noi românii , mai ales pentru o anumită categorie de români , vizavi de evenimentele din decembrie 1989 când șefii securității au decis pe tăcute să adopte pe cât posibil politica struţului şi să lase în seama armatei şi eventual a gărzilor patriotice sarcina de a se „ sacrifica pentru salvarea regimului ceaușist ” .
un profesor de valoarea doamnei zoe petre nu putea să nu pună adevărul istoric în faţa legendei armatei devotate poporului , de asemenea a făcut o distincţie clară între instituţia „ odioasă a securităţii ” şi activitatea cadrelor acesteia , în timpul revoluţiei din decembrie , şi ceea ce este cel mai dureros pentru unii care au participat la conducerea țării în anii ‘ 90 este faptul că atât ion iliescu , cât şi cei din anturajul lui ştiau prea bine că „ teroriştii ” sunt o ficţiune criminală si un „ spectacol regizat ” .
evenimentele care au urmat : martie 1990 , târgu mureş , când regimul lui ion iliescu îşi asuma deschis tezele naţional-comunismului , şi piaţa universităţii , iunie 1991 , au dus la netezirea drumului cdr care în final l-a propulsat pe preşedintele emil constantinescu care a adus prima alternanţă democratică la putere după 60 de ani .
indiferent de dificultăţile deseori insurmontabile ale legiferării , preşedintele emil constantinescu a fost primul şef de stat român care a condamnat comunismul , a cerut iertare în numele statului pe care îl reprezenta atunci tuturor victimelor represiunii anticomuniste cerând parlamentului româniei să adopte măsurile reparatorii necesare care decurgeau din această condamnare .
administraţia constantinescu a fost cea care a pus bazele integrării europene şi euroatlantice a româniei , iar politica de bună vecinătate a fost exprimată în discursul domniei sale în 2 decembrie 1996 la reuniunea la vârf a osce de la lisabona şi s-a situat pe parcursul întregului său mandat într-o logică a complementarităţii faţă de politicile de aderare la uniunea europeană şi integrare euroatlantică .
din nefericire , sublinia doamna zoe petre , refuzând să accepte faptul ca victoria din 1996 fusese decisivă , dar parţială , şi nu un triumf absolut , nucleul dur al partizanilor cdr nerăbdător şi radical , s-a desprins repede de realităţile unei puteri care era obligată să negocieze fiecare pas spre reformă , mai mult „ trădarea iubită ” de unii politicieni din cadrul convenţiei democratice , care au dus în secret tratative cu psd – ne referim aici concret la pnl – , au dat lovitura de graţie cdr-ului .
cu toate acestea , procesul de democratizare a devenit astfel ireversibil şi înfrângerea partidelor din fosta convenţie democratică nu a mai putut să schimbe radical victoriile dobândite în cei patru ani de guvernare democratică a româniei .
în perfect acord cu doamna catherine durandin , care este fără niciun dubiu istoricul francez cel mai informat cu privire la românia pe care o cunoaşte foarte bine şi o iubeşte cu inteligenţă şi pasiune , doamna zoe petre , cu un discernământ critic , deseori amar , nu numai că refuză să inventeze „ o idilă ” despre revoluţie , cum sunt multe cărţi apărute pe piaţă , ci scoate tema excepţiei româneşti din categoria fatalităţilor istorice obiective şi o înscrie în istoria concretă a postcomunismului .
next the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress世界新聞網- 美食情報站 razer ’ s newest headset series is named after a sea spirit the crew of hmas tobruk was on a routine mission in the pacific when the call for help came from the cyclone-devastated philippines . ( 12 / 21 / 2013 12 : 29 : 48 am ) a new training course for the car industry is being launched at the university of buckingham to act as a springboard for a new generation of experts .
online : [ add my company ] insert your pic of your country via computer then you can and the receiver will not be billed .
unfortunately thailand is not on the mtns system as only companies however you can send out of thailand direct to the mobile number in seconds . [ & asia trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all breaches of our copyright will be deemed an infringement on the copyrights of this cash-rich and determined to develop in the upstream , glencore has elbowed its way into the sale of assets by western majors in nigeria . ( ... )
the nigerian trader benedict peters is in the running to buy several of shell ’ s licences . ( ... )
flaunting his title as king of nembe , a former oil adviser to olusegun obasanjo is trying to buy an oil field from shell that lies on his community ’ s territory . ( ... )
the nigerian oil company has postponed a listing on the stock exchange in the hope of buying some of chevon ’ s assets in the niger delta . ( ... )
relatively discreet since he left the post of nigeria ’ s oil minister in 2010 , rilwanu ( ... )
bujumbura - a burundian court opened the trial friday of a " we argued that the arrest of our client was arbitrary and we called for his temporary release .
the court adjourned for consultation , " on july 12 , a day after the kampala bombings , he wrote that the naysayers can be reassured , however : even if the economy does grow by 3 % in 2014 , this expansion would still be one of the slowest on record . cut off from the ocean by the annamite range with rolling mountains that stretch as far as the eye can see , life has always happened at a languid pace in laos .
while stunningly beautiful , the mounta ..... ( 12 / 29 / 2013 12 : 05 : 42 pm ) ewura director general haruna masebu said the report identified water loss as a challenge facing all water firms but dawasco is at its worst .
president paul kagame of rwanda is encouraging his kenyan counterpart uhuru kenyatta not to go to the international criminal court ( icc ) in the hague for his trial which is due to ( ... )
italian engineer giuseppe ciccarelli is fast becoming a man to be reckoned with ( ... )
in north carolina , mccrory will succeed a governor , democrat bev perdue , who narrowly beat him for the job four years ago .
perdue chose not to run for a second term , after a string of controversies dogged mexico , jan brewer of arizona and mary fallin of oklahoma . )
" mystical body mystical voice " - catechesis programassension press : " a biblical walk through the mass " " praying the mass " by jeffrey pinyan although he is nearing 65 , helder josé bataglia dos santos , a portuguese businessman ( ... )
if you are interested in becoming more involved in the mission of cchd orlearning more , please contact patrice at 218-724-9111 or pcritchley @ dioceseduluth.org.
it & # 8217 ; s a good way to build your clip portfolio : in order to get a job in print or online journalism you need a strong clip portfolio , and writing for a community paper is a terrific way to do that .
as i said earlier , community papers typically use a lot of articles from freelancers , so if you & # 8217 ; re eager to work it & # 8217 ; s possible to rack up a lot of clips in a relatively short period of time .
next , interview a few people to collect quotes that reflect the public ’ s perception of the event or story .
don & # 8217 ; t be intimidated by the idea of interviewing important or newsworthy people !
an interview can be as formal or informal as you want to make it , so relax and have fun with it .
find a few people with strong opinions and write down the responses for accuracy .
also let the interviewee know that you will be quoting him or her .
here are some ways on how you can use the top social networks to your advantage .
you & # 8217 ; ll have to do a bit of research to find the right guy or girl ( make sure you ask for examples ! ) ; but that effort will pay off in the long run .
if you want a strong , sustainable business then an amazon store builder is going to lay the foundation ! of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsburundi réalités des milliers d ’ opposants ont encore protesté dimanche à bangkok pour amener le premier ministre yingluck shinawatra à quitter le pouvoir avant l ’ élection de shinawatra a décidé d ’ anticiper les élections pour les tenir le 2 février , elle déclare vouloir empêcher le premier ministre de renouveler son mandat et de perpétuer l ’ influence de son frère thaksin vivant en exil volontaire .
yingluck shinawatra , qui est accusée de diriger la thaïlande suivant les ordres de son frère thaksin , ancien premier ministre du pays , exilé depuis son éviction " je déteste yingluck et souhaite me débarrasser d ’ elle , parce qu ’ elle travaille pour son frère , pas pour le peuple thaïlandais " , a dit à reuters l ’ un " le gouvernement est prêt à dissoudre le parlement si la majorité le veut " , a " si les manifestants ou un important parti politique n 'accepte pas cela ou n 'accepte pas les résultats des élections , cela ne fera que prolonger le conflit " , le chef de la mobilisation contre yingluck shinawatra déclare avoir exigé dimanche la démission de la première ministre thaïlandaise , avant l 'ouverture m. thangsuban affirme avoir rencontré mme shinawatra , grâce à l 'armée .
des milliers de manifestants se sont rassemblés dimanche à bangkok , la capitale de ils ont encerclé des bâtiments de l ’ administration publique , des stations de télévision et le quartier de la police .
des soldats non armés ont été mobilisés pour renforcer la police anti-émeute , qui a fait usage de gaz lacrymogènes et de m. thangsuban a lancé un mot d ’ ordre de grève générale pour la journée de gouverner le pays suivant les ordres de son frère thaksin vivant en exil à au moins deux personnes auraient été tuées samedi lors des affrontements entre partisans du régime et des militants de l ’ opposition et de la société la mobilisation dirigée contre le régime de yingluck shinawatra est entrée yingluck shinawatra est populaire auprès des électeurs ruraux , tandis que ses opposants sont plus appréciés des classes moyennes et des électeurs urbains .
le porte-parole de la police nationale a annoncé que 2.730 éléments de la marine et des forces aériennes seront déployés sur les lieux où se tiennent les burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală | cadran politic home eveniment emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală președintele emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență pentru activitatea de o viață în domeniul diplomației cultural , la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală din berlin din 17-22 decembrie 2013 .
conferinţa anuală a institutului de diplomaţie culturală din berlin ( icd ) care se desfăşoară în capitala germaniei în perioada 17-22 decembrie 2013 , având ca temă “ cooperarea transcontinentală – poduri pentru o comunitate globală unită ” şi la care participă peste o sută de personalităţi politice şi academice din întreaga lume , a programat în seara zilei de 19 decembrie ceremonia de acordare a “ premiului de excelenţă pentru activitatea de o viaţă în domeniul diplomaţiei culturale ” profesorului emil constantinescu , preşedintele academiei de diplomaţie culturală .
în diploma care i-a fost decernată cu acest prilej este menţionată înalta admiraţie pentru contribuţia de preeminent avocat al păcii de-a lungul unei ilustre cariere care a avut un profund impact asupra comunităţii globale prin promovarea valorilor morale şi a dialogului între culturi şi religii .
cu această ocazie , preşedintelui constantinescu i-a fost decernat şi trofeul “ pace prin cultură şi educaţie ” .
trofeul este o sculptură din cupru , realizată de un tânăr artist plastic român , cristian răduţă , reprezentând un sul de papyrus pe care este marcată harta lumii .
diploma şi trofeul i-au fost înmânate de către e.s. francesco rutelli , fost viceprim-ministru al italiei , preşedintele boardului “ institutului de diplomaţie culturală ” din berlin , şi de mark donfried , directorul icd .
dr. petru lucinschi , preşedintele moldovei ( 1996-2000 ) , prof. dr .
arnold ruutel , preşedintele estoniei ( 2000-2004 ) şi prof. dr .
mircea dumitru , rectorul universităţii din bucureşti au prezentat câte o laudatio în care au elogiat activitatea laureatului premiului “ pace prin cultură şi educaţie & # 8211 ; 2013 ” .
după laudatio , oana lianu , o tânără artistă din românia , a interpretat vocal şi la nai fragmente din “ rapsodia română ” a lui george enescu şi a fost proiectat un film dedicat activităţii preşedintelui emil constantinescu , realizat de echipa icd . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress reunion news headlines homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newsclassifiedscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery the fomc had those numbers wednesday morning , well before the 2 pm edt release of its statement .
but it did not acknowledge any of the slowing in private payrolls .
was this a coping mechanism to deal with the cognitive dissonance caused by weak employment gains and a 20 % rise in the s & p 500 this year ?
not being in a position to put ben bernanke and the rest of the committee on the couch , i can 't answer .
is quality assurance system in our basic education effective ? na masozi nyirenda ( c ) the inspectorate department in the moevt is well equipped and staffed to undertake its mandate , and , • there is no routine of sending the school inspection ’ s reports to the administrative district level , • there is limited transparency : the information concerning audits is not published implying that it is not accessible to the media and the general public .
and , • the issue of poor performing students is not sufficiently prioritised in the handbooks , school inspectorate plans and in inspection activities ; • recommendations are often not appropriately targeted to the relevant individuals and are too costly to implement , hence unrealistic ; washtenaw county schools call off class monday due to snowstorm sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 16 pm est preparing for extreme cold : how to stay safe and avoid frostbite sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 16 pm est out of the snow , into the deep freeze mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 16 am est chuck carlson column : in jeopardy of finding out how dumb i really am sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 16 pm est detroit residential streets to get plowed monday mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 16 am est swaps deal trial in detroit bankruptcy on hold due to snowstorm sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 16 pm est pontiac man charged in stabbing death at waterford new year ’ s day party fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 16 pm est man held in fatal stabbing at new year ’ s day party thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 16 pm est city of detroit mon dec 30 , 2013 04 : 16 am est police accuse waterford twp. motorist of pointing gun at a truck driver tue mar 26 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt angels and spartans mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 16 am est cold weather can be hard on your car sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 16 pm est man found shot dead in suv in inkster sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 16 pm est pontiac resident arraigned in fatal stabbing of clarkston man fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 16 pm est waterford twp. police investigating new year ’ s day fatal stabbing thu jan 2 , 2014 4 : 16 pm est man found shot dead in suv in inkster mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 16 am est snow ends , ’ nasty ’ wind chills as low as 29 below begin in genesee county mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 16 am est obituaries today : robin corbin , 57 , ’ definition of a helicopter man ’ at spectrum aeromed sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 16 pm est city suspends refuse and recycling collection on monday due to snow sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 16 pm est ice proliferates across the great lakes during ’ extremely cold ’ winter sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 16 pm est school and other closings mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 16 am est be careful of obstacles while skiing on ortonville trails sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 16 pm est government offices in saginaw , bay city closed monday due to snowstorm mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 16 am est frankenmuth credit union creates nonprofit ’ foundation for our communities ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 16 pm est nssf selling 300 affordable houses in dar es salaam na the guardian reporter however , the cost for each house situated at mtoni kijichi area was not revealed but duration of the mortgage issued by the fund is up to 15 years .
among the projects implemented by nssf include construction of university of dodoma , residential houses in bugarika area , mwanza region and mtoni kijichi in dar es salaam .
nssf is also putting up a state-of-the-art and five star tourist hotel in mwanza city .
mclean county authorities say they are close to wrapping up a number of burglary cases in the northern part of the county .
it ’ s time to look to the future .
garrison school is in the midst of a growth spurt .
space is at a premium at both the high school and elementary school .
the city of garrison has placed a moratorium on construction of what it calls oversized pole barns or buildings in the city .
vugar khalilov : investigators told me , " how can you be not guilty if the journalists keep saying that you are bakievist ? !
vugar khalilov , the director-general of flexi communications pr agency , has demanded from the president of the rfe / rl radio free europe / radio liberty ) and from the prosecutor general of kyrgyzstan to investigate who and why has libeled him in the program of the rfe / rl 's kyrgyz service ( radio " azattyk " ) what resulted in his imprisonment almost for 5 months in the jail of the kyrgyzstan 's national security ministry ( gsnb ) .
at the end of the day the court has completely acquitted the british citizen , however activity of the pr agency v.khalilov established in kyrgyzstan has been still paralyzed .
vugar khalilov has told to fergana.ru how the investigation was carried on , what he was accused of , and also about specifics of the information war in kyrgyzstan which , in its opinion , has in certain extent led to the “ april events ” .
tolekan ismailova : “ the investigation of southern events is strategic issue ” islam karimov & co are the ones radicalising central asia dosym satpayev : uzbekistan is one of the major destabilization factors in the region arkady dubnov : the afghanis tolerate armed occupiers but it is getting increasingly more difficult to do so boris akunin : if they do not want me to write a book , dedicated to uzbekistan in the beginning of the century , i am not going to arkadiy dubnov : « the countries , lacking the culture of discussion , are not able to cooperate » antonietta gobbis : i can do things in tashkent that i cannot do in my hometown of florence kyrgyz prime-minister : “ my premiership in hands of ak jol party ” artist vyacheslav useinov : one has to swim against the current natalia bushuyeva : i did my best to work as if there were no censorship in uzbekistan bairam shihmuradov : as long as berdymuhammedov does not stop at it sergei yezhkov : speaking my mind and being heard is all i aspire for roza otunbayeva : we do not insist on the president 's resignation honestly and sans frontiers is the motto of a new and unusual internet project in kazakhstan ex-premier felix kulov elaborates on his plans to return to the opposition nigara hidoyatova : uzbek agriculture is in for years of trouble deputy kadyrjan batyrov : the reforms are the only consolidating force in the country ismail dadajanov : being in an uzbek jail is not my idea of fun jetblue stranded a bunch of people in barbados and may not get them home for a week simon cowell mobbed by adoring female fans in barbados — see the funny pics !
rihanna and cara delevingne party together in barbados — see the pic !
look at these beaming beauties in barbados !
good pals cara delevingne and rihanna enjoyed a fun night out on the town , captured in an adorable snapshot , on saturday , dec .... ( 12 / 29 / 2013 6 : 05 : 45 pm ) the bull market is on the brink of losing one of its most important supports. is xle.on the bear side , the corresponding spdr etfs are telecom oas supports and certifies destruction of weapons in costa rica related articlesthe puckhogs score top 10 in song questthe puckhogs among top 50 song contest contendersthe puckhogs take aim at hockey glory for arab americans , this was the story of abscam .
it was an american hustle to be sure , but one that was profoundly hurtful to an entire culture .
more importantly , it was the event that propelled us to action .
it 's a shame that hollywood didn 't see fit to get that part of the story right .
but then to do so they would have had to acknowledge the role they played in helping to popularize the negative stereotype the fbi used , in the first place .
a hard-driving ghanaian businessman who ’ s somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades , william ato essien , was in london last week for the mining on top africa seminar to lay out his new venture , ( ... )
it was a cold night in garrison .
but the lack of a teaching contact for garrison teachers remains a hot topic in the community and weighs heavily at board meetings .
it will soon be illegal to smoke or use tobacco products of any kind on all county premises .
even though there ’ s no snow on the ground doesn ’ t mean one can ’ t get into the christmas spirit .
ugandan internationals hamis kiiza and emmanuel okwi are expected to arrive in dar es salaam today to join the team now on daily training at bora ground .
the duo are under criticism for adding a few more days in their x-mas and new year holidays , which for okwi is a frequent complaint , as he fell out with etoile du sahel on claims of salary and club complaints on his attitude .
okwi joined the premier league champions yanga almost two weeks ago and featured in a friendly match where he scored the only goal in his new team ’ s 3-1 defeat to arch-rivals simba sc at the national stadium in dar es salaam on december 21 .
temeke team yesterday outclassed rukwa by 94-16 goals at the ongoing national netball championship held at the national stadium in dar es salaam .
at secretary general suleiman nyambui said yesterday the technical committee headed by doctor hamad mdee is expected to go through the calendar of activities for the association before it is approved by the executive committee of the body .
disclosing this yesterday , tff president jamar malinzi said the job is effect from january 1 , next year and mwesigwa , who holds a degree in interntional relations and a diploma in law , met all the requirements for the job .
the decision to fire the dutch trainer comes two days after the team ’ s 3-1 defeat in the hands of their archrivals simba in ’ nani mtani mjembe ’ match played at the national stadium .
more than 422m / - was collected during the ’ nani mtani jembe ’ match between archrivals simba and yanga played at the national stadium in dar es salaam on saturday .
simba proved that they are a force to reckon with when they hit archrivals yanga 3-1 in a beer promotion friendly match at the national stadium in dar es salaam yesterday .
city rivals young africans sc and simba sc meet in a tension packed friendly at the national stadium in dar es salaam today .
although it is a friendly but it is considered a league match as the two sides rarely meet and a loss will almost instantaneously lead to problems of technical bench cohesion and fan loyalty for the losing side .
in a surprise but business-wise acceptable move , french media firm sgm has pledged to buy all television rights to beam live a caf champions league first leg tie between mainland champions yanga and holders al ahly to be played in dar es salaam next year .
former simba sc striker emmanuel okwi has crossed over to mainland champions yanga as confirmed by the club ’ s information officer baraka kazuguto in dar es salaam yesterday .
simba sc players and officials are expected to travel to zanzibar later today for a five-day camp in preparation for a friendly tie against archrivals young africans to be played at the national stadium in dar es salaam on saturday .
mwalusako has been the club ’ s acting secretary general for almost one year after celestine mwesigwa was sacked .
in his letter to immediate former tff president leodegar tenga , kikwete asked tenga to use his experience as leader of tff to advise the federation leadership on matters concerning football development .
archrivals simba and yanga will lock horns in their ’ nani mtani mjembe ’ campaign match on december 21 at the national stadium in dar es salaam .
bausi scoffed at the cecafa tournament organizers for not setting up the final group stage game simultaneously .
speaking before the departure of the team , the tanzania cycling association ( chabata ) president , jax mhagama , who is also the leader of the delegation , named the cyclists who have left for egypt as laizer loning ’ o and hamis mkoma both of arusha and gerald konda of shinyanga .
square are expected to rock dar es salaam with a historic performance at the leaders club in kinondoni today. вентилируемые фасады цена | прогнозы на баскетбол бесплатно best stocks for 2014 - barrons.com hopper bands and swarms continue to form on both sides of the red sea as the year 2013 draws to a close , the gpei takes stock : " this is the beginning of 2014 , " shebab spokesman ali mohamud rage said in a new year message , a day after the hotel attacks .
agence france-presse : © afp : the information provided in this product is for personal use only .
none of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of agence france-presse .
the government has been urged to review its tourism policy as a way of ensuring that investors in the sector don ’ t incur losses for providing services to tourists visiting dar es salaam city .
is agriculture the real backbone of our economy ? na correspondent the extent to what the kilimo kwanza will be influential to the socio-economic development of tanzania depends on the perspective on which the policy was built .
the fractures kilimo kwanza policy is living with are the ones to make it fail to relegate poverty from the embrace of the tanzanians who are slowly acquiring acumen after the long exposure to life challenges .
lack of education and absolute poverty have proved to be an open handicap to the success of the policy .
people are not aware of the advantage of the use of fertilizers and quality seeds .
these obstacles of comprehension contribute to the failure of kilimo kwanza .
as the western people are applying austerity economics what is our focus ?
if we apply the same policy as europe we are going to suffer the loss as our economy is very weak to endure the outcomes of it .
let me quote a very small part of one of the speeches made by the founder of the nation , mwalimu julius nyerere , " & hellip ; & hellip ; & hellip ; & hellip ; .. we cannot continue with the economy which depends on agriculture without industries , but we can build industries out of the agricultural sector & hellip ; & hellip ; & hellip ; . "
the utterance of nyerere is of great validity as the english people suggest us to cut the coat according to the cross .
what we have is what will make us obtain other things .
the relatives of the two british victims have reached an agreement with one of the insurance companies and will receive payments of € 138,250 and € 109,971 , according to the patients ’ ombudsman .
the third victim was a man from oviedo , but the junta de andalucia provincial health delegation claims that his death was not due to the legionnaire ’ s outbreak .
blog archivelatest from svaboda.org палітвязень яроменак віншуе з-за кратаў у маскве затрымалі 28 актывістаў андросенка : « у царкве і касьцёле багата гомасэксуалаў » архіяпіскап логін : памолімся за ліцьвінаў-беларусаў , за вязьняў і выгнанцаў праваслаўныя сустракаюць нараджэньне хрыстова radio svaboda ( in belarusian ) features & commentary the president and his daughters took off for washington aboard air force one on saturday night. country is lao people 's democratic republic .
in lao , sathalanalat pasathipatai pasason lao. routes between thailand , vietnam and china now makes it a country to be courted by its internationalizing neighbors .
arr 1220 thursday & sunday.luang phrabang to vientiane dep 1250 ancient cultural artifacts are prohibited to be taken out of laos .
if you have on arrival at wattaya international airport in vientiane , taxis are available to savannakhet and pakse , the khong falls , and low water levels during the dry transportation : nam ou , nam khan , nam tha , nam hgur , and se don .
lao pdr has 13100 km of main road networks .
the 3390 km of national roads link the central telephone office is located on setthathilath road near nam phu the local newspaper to read is the vientiane times and if you want to check as the site known as ( www.vientianetimes ) has nothing to do with the where you can also receive a copy of the chiangmai trader news complete travel requirements try [ travel infos de dernière minute , photos et opinions sur al huffington post maghreb vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur http : / / m.huffpost.com / mg / pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
la constitution garantit-elle réellement l 'égalité entre les citoyens et les citoyennes ?
art - que ces œuvres de traces , de signes et d 'écritures sur la toile blanche restent gravées dans les mémoires comme un tatouage berbère sur la peau blanche , ou comme un talisman auquel rien ne pourrait résister .
quotidien - tout d 'abord , je vous souhaite d 'être heureux !
je vous souhaite aussi d 'arrêter de cracher sur celui ou celle qui est à côté de vous sous prétexte qu 'il boive , qu 'il prie , qu 'il porte une barbe , qu 'il porte une boucle d 'oreille , qu 'elle porte un décolleté , qu 'elle porte un foulard , qu 'il soit " azreg " , qu 'elle soit grosse , qu 'il soit maigre ...
constitution - ce matin du 3 juillet , on aurait pu commencer à espérer que l 'adoption de ce projet de constitution puisse se faire dans un délai raisonnable , à défaut de tenir celui du 14 janvier 2014 annoncé un peu vite par le président de l 'anc .
c 'était visiblement compter sans l 'éternel boulet de cette assemblée qu 'est son manque criant de méthode .
point de vue - c 'est avec satisfaction que j 'entrevois la fin de mon semestre à l 'université de carthage en tunisie .
au cours des derniers mois , j 'ai eu la chance de partager la vie d 'un peuple qui traverse des moments uniques de son histoire , soit la transition d 'une dictature à une démocratie .
media - les nations unis ne cessent de rappeler que la violence faite aux femmes est un drame social et qu 'il est essentiel , pour chaque pays , d 'œuvrer à le combattre et à l 'endiguer .
pourtant , il semble que la télévision tunisienne est encore loin de servir de plate-forme d 'initiation et de sensibilisation aux réalités de ce problème .
pire encore , certaines émissions de télé-réalités se transforment en un espace de banalisation , voire de légitimation de la brutalité masculine envers les femmes , en témoigne l 'émission " andi mankollek " de la chaîne privée al-tounsiya .
schumacher - tout a commencé en 1984 avec son premier sacre en championnat d 'allemagne junior de karting .
aujourd 'hui , et après cette carrière sportive rayonnante et ce palmarès éloquent , le septuple champion du monde vient d 'entamer la course la plus importante de sa vie la violence n 'est pas naturelle .
l 'agressivité , nécessaire à la survie , l 'est .
la violence est un dérapage , une construction .
la thèse voulant que l 'humanité ait toujours été en guerre est de plus en plus souvent contestée par des spécialistes de la préhistoire .
historien des mentalités et des religions en afrique du nord islamisme - le concept de l 'islamisme est l 'un des plus utilisé du vocabulaire politico-intellectuel tunisien post-révolutionnaire .
néanmoins , la réflexion sur le rapport entre islam et démocratie a commencé depuis les années 90 , lorsque samuel huntington a déclenché un tollé en publiant son livre intitulé " the clash of civilizations and the remaking of world order " .
justice - celui qui a dit qu 'on était innocent jusqu 'à preuve du contraire n 'a rien compris .
il s 'est même lourdement trompé .
en comparaissant devant un juge d 'instruction , on joue sa vie , sa famille , ses enfants et son travail .
ce n 'est pas normal et cela doit impérativement cesser .
alimentation - la légende raconte que cléopâtre mettait des feuilles de safran dans son bain pour pimenter sa vie sexuelle .
faisant l 'éloge de sa fertilité , les aztèques surnommaient l 'avocatier " l 'arbre testicule " .
il semblerait que : ' plus ça change , plus c 'est la même chose ' .
égypte : la délirante histoire de abla fahita , une poupée poursuivie pour terrorisme à tunis , 3 % des lycéens consomment du cannabis selon une pré-enquêteflickr / jonathan reyes | flickr égypte : 12 militants égyptiens dont alaa abd el fattah condamnés à un an de prison avec sursisfacebook " 25 à 30 terroristes trouvent refuge au chaâmbi " selon le porte-parole de la défensefacebook / unite speciale usgn l 'interdiction du " takfir " sera un des principes généraux de la constitution tunisienne ! afp l 'interdiction du " takfir " sera un des principes généraux de la constitution tunisienne !
la saga de l 'enfer blancafple " dragon des neiges " piégé à son tour " un bon projet de constitution " qui pourrait être meilleurflickr / amine ghrabi | flickr premiers amendements adoptés pour la " constitution de la république tunisienne " nacer talel pour le huffpost maghreb appel à renforcer la protection des droits humains dans la future constitutionwikimedia préliminaires et bricolage à l 'assemblée à la veille du jour jflickr / jim pennucci | flickr fonds de la dignité ... et de la controverseflickr / santheo | flickr une marionnette en tissu dans le collimateur de la justice égyptiennetwitter abla fatiha trois régimes qui font plus de mal que de bienshutterstock new-york : un petit avion se pose sur une autoroute du bronx ( vidéo ) capture vidéo ap bizerte est " happy " ! capture d 'écran / youtubele clip de pharrell williams , à la sauce tunisienne pourquoi toutankhamon avait-il été momifié avec le pénis en érection ? flickr / phil kp | flickr le roi lion sans animaux ? capture d 'écran / youtubela nouvelle campagne de sensibilisation de greenpeace racisme en france : les lettres écoeurantes que la femme de jamel debbouze reçoit chaque semainefacebook / jameldebbouze découverte d 'une molécule protégeant le cerveau d 'une addiction au cannabisshutterstock zoom sur cinq des plus beaux buts tunisiens de l 'année 2013flickr / opopododo | flickr but as i waited for him to find the words and the appropriate papers , no story was told .
instead all i could see in the poor lighting was his dawdling hands swaying left then right and the words “ vaginal swabs ” scribbled in front of me .
“ yes .
it shouldn ’ t be too much of a problem , though . ”
he clapped , drawing his hands together .
their jitter had since calmed down to a mere tremor and now they rested on his lap .
for a second , i think he was trying to flex .
“ well , that isn ’ t very good now is it ?
in my day … ” he droned on and on about how he used to work out at the beach because girls were there and how he managed to pick up a few and how working out boosted the immune system but it also boosted something else if you thought long and hard about it .
the entries will be short .
they ’ ll be long .
they ’ ll be romantic and they ’ ll be antiseptic .
there will be laughs , disbelief , moments of anger , and there will be cussing about how stupid the writer is and how his glasses aren ’ t straight on his head and why hasn ’ t he shaven and is he really wearing sweatpants again ?
there ’ ll be a lot and there will be a little .
some days , a sentence will be enough .
other days , you ’ ll have this and it ’ ll be exhausting and you ’ ll scroll down to the end to see if anything good will come up .
and maybe you ’ ll be having a bad day or maybe you ’ ll be bored because god knows in a time when we can see anything on the internet , looking at nothing is sometimes enough , and you ’ ll feel better because you ’ ll know that each day i ’ ll be there with you at the corner of these pages , laughing if you laugh and crying if you cry .
get involvedtrecut şi prezent în politica externa românească | cadran politic home idei contemporane trecut şi prezent în politica externa românească posted by florin constantiniu on mar 25th , 2003 / / comments off istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii istoria românilor alatura exemple de uluitor curaj si de totala neîncredere în fortele proprii .
mircea cel batrân , vlad tepes , stefan cel mare si alti voievozi au cautat alianta unor mari puteri crestine în lupta cu imperiul otoman & # 8211 ; pâna în secolul al xvi-lea , o adevarata superputere a epocii & # 8211 ; dar , când concursul militar al acestor puteri a lipsit , ei nu au sovait sa stea singuri în fata unui adversar de o coplesitoare superioritate ; au facut-o pentru a-si apara tara lor , dar au avut si constiinta unui mare rost european , asa cum o spune raspicat stefan cel mare în solia sa catre venetia din 1477 : & # 8220 ; nu vreau sa mai spun cât de folositoare este pentru treburile crestine aceasta tara a mea ; socotesc ca este de prisos fiindca lucrul e prea limpede ca ea este cetatea de aparare a tarii unguresti si a poloniei si straja acestor doua craii .
afara de aceasta , fiindca turcul s-a împiedicat de mine , multi crestini au ramas în liniste de patru ani & # 8221 ; .
când soarta armelor nu le-a fost favorabila , ei nu s-au descurajat , asa cum reiese si din inscriptia pusa de acelasi stefan la biserica din razboieni , ridicata în 1496 , acolo unde fusese înfrânt cu douazeci de ani înainte de sultanul mehmed al ii-lea : & # 8220 ; s-a ridicat prea puternicul mahmet , împarat turcesc , cu toate puterile sale rasaritene ; si înca si basarab voievod , numit laiota , a venit cu el , cu toata tara basarabeasca ( tara româneasca , numita astfel dupa dinastia basarabilor & # 8211 ; n.n. ) .
si au venit sa prade si sa ia tara moldovei ; si au ajuns pâna aici , la locul numit valea alba .
iar noi , stefan voievod si cu fiul nostru alexandru , am iesit înaintea lor si am facut mare razboi cu ei , în luna iulie 26 ; si cu voia lui dumnezeu , au fost înfrânti crestinii de pagâni .
si au cazut aici multime mare de osteni ai moldovei .
tot atunci si tatarii au lovit tara moldovei din ceia parte & # 8221 ; .
relatarea atât e obiectiva a unui esec & # 8211 ; sa recunoastem & # 8211 ; este cu totul rara la oamenii politici .
în alte împrejurari se constata o adevarata spaima când este evocata posibilitatea unei confruntari cu poarta otomana .
astfel , în 1658 , când domnul tarii românesti , mihnea al iii-lea ( era grec ! ) , le propune boierilor sa se ridice împotriva imperiului otoman , acestia vadesc o totala lipsa de încredere în victorie : & # 8220 ; doamne , bun lucru ar fi acesta !
iar noi ne temem ca nu vom putea plini desavârsit , ci numai vom zadarî sarpele si ne va înghiti cu totul .
caci noi sântem o tara mica si far de oameni , neputincioasa si far de ajutor de nici o parte .
iar turcii sunt puternici , mari si biruiesc toata lumea , de la rasarit la apus & # 8221 ; .
nimic din curajul lui stefan cel mare !
aceeasi gândire politica , exprimata în termeni similari de unul dintre cei mai vârstnici oameni politici români , în 1914 , theodor rosetti , cumnatul lui cuza voda , care , în consiliul de coroana de la sinaia , convocat pentru a fixa atitudinea româniei în razboiul ce tocmai izbucnise , a spus : & # 8220 ; suntem o tara mica , un biet popor , iesit abia de ieri , de alaltaieri , din greutati si din robie .
nu cred ca sta în putinta noastra sa facem politica mare .
acum cei mari s-au încaierat , noi nu avem ce cauta în luptele lor .
sa stam deci linistiti la o parte , sa ne vedem de nevoile si de necazurile noastre si sa ne caznim sa pastram ceea ce cu atâta truda am agonisit & # 8221 ; .
cine urmareste politica externa a româniei în perioada post-decembrista , constata ca ea este dominata de felul de a gândi al boierilor munteni de la 1658 sau & # 8211 ; pâna la un punct & # 8211 ; al lui theodor rosetti , la 1914 .
întocmai ca si dupa primul razboi mondial , când garantiile de securitate au fost cautate cu precadere în exterior ( franta si anglia , mica întelegere , întelegerea balcanica , alianta româno-polona ) , si astazi , se crede ca garantiile de securitate vin din includerea româniei în nato .
doua observatii sunt aici de facut : 1 ) .
nato din perioada post-comunista , nu mai este nato din perioada razboiului rece ; disparitia amenintarii sovietice a lasat teren liber de manifestare a divergentelor si tensiunilor dintre aliati .
încordarea dintre sua si & # 8220 ; vechea europa & # 8221 ; ( franta , germania ) este o dovada graitoare ; 2 ) .
cine ameninta românia în momentul de fata ?
cu bulgaria si ungaria nu mai avem nici un litigiu teritorial ; ucrainei , tratatul din 1997 i-a dat teritorii românesti , la care probabil , nici nu visa ; rusia nu mai este vecina cu românia .
atunci ? & # 8220 ; noile amenintari & # 8221 ; ?
terorismul ?
în realitate , prin urmarea orbeasca a sua , românia se expune loviturilor teroriste .
retorica propagandei americane vrea sa acrediteze ideea ca , în prezent , are loc o confruntare între lumea civilizata si terorism .
nu este adevarat .
terorismul islamic este o componenta a conflictului din orientul mijlociu , iar ostilitatea sa fata de sua , o consecinta a pozitiei adoptate de sua în acest conflict , pozitie perceputa de fundamentalistii islamici ca antiaraba si antiislamica .
în conditiile unei confruntari asimetrice , partea slaba recurge la mijloace neconventionale de lupta , în speta acte teroriste .
din dorinta de a fi admisi în nato , am sacrificat ucrainei teritorii românesti la care kievul nu avea nici un drept .
atunci , în 1997 , sua s-au opus intrarii româniei în nato .
dupa 11 septembrie 2001 , interesat sa transforme nato într-un simplu instrument al politicii externe a sua si sa-si extinda controlul asupra unui numar cât mai mare de tari , washingtonul si-a aruncat privirile si asupra româniei .
guvernantii de la bucuresti , nesiguri de ei , apasati de banuiala de neo- sau criptocomunism , aveau nevoie de o legitimare din partea serifului mondial , sua .
au alergat în întâmpinarea dorintelor lui cu un servilism de prost gust , care a compromis tara noastra .
în jelania sa , theodor rosetti spunea ca românia nu trebuie sa se amestece în certurile dintre cei mari .
guvernantii nostri , tematori ca si theodor rosetti , n-au mers cu logica fricii pâna la capat : mai simplu spus , & # 8220 ; sa stea în banca lor & # 8221 ; .
nu , în dorinta de a fi pe placul washingtonului si a primului lor vasal , marea britanie , au criticat pozitia rationala a frantei .
ei nu înteleg ca , pentru o tara ca românia , coordonatele securitatii sunt un sistem multipolar sanatos si o institutie care sa impuna respectul legalitatii internationale .
activitatea politica si diplomatica a tarii noastre în ultimul timp pare a voi sa ilustreze afirmatia lui emil cioran : & # 8220 ; a fi român înseamna a fi o fiinta cu multa apa în sânge & # 8221 ; . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress : : : . : : : . : : : welcome to apanews.net : tv , news , photos rdc : le m23 se régénère-t-il à partir du rwanda et de l 'ouganda ?
sur le papier , la rébellion du mouvement du 23-mars ( m23 ) a pris fin après une défaite militaire , début novembre , sanctionnée par la récente déclaration de d 'experts onusiens , indiquent que l 'ex-groupe rebelle tenterait de se refaire une santé en procédant à de nouveaux recrutements au rwanda et en ouganda , où c 'est un document qui ne devrait pas passer inaperçu .
le rapport final du groupe d 'experts des nations unies sur la rdc , encore confidentiel mais dont l 'agence reuters s 'est procuré une copie , affirme non seulement que les rebelles du mouvement du 23-mars ( m23 ) ont bénéficié d 'un " soutien continu " de kigali lors des dernières offensives des forces armées de la rdc ( fardc ) appuyées par la brigade d 'intervention de l 'onu , mais surtout qu ' " ils ont continué à recruter expliquent qu 'elles ne sont pas surprises par les allégations contenues dans le rapport d 'experts onusiens .
" nous n 'avons jamais eu d 'engagement ferme et clair des autorités rwandaises sur la cessation de tout appui aux rebelles du m23 , confie un diplomate européen basé à kinshasa .
nous avons donc toujours supposé que le soutien de kigali , bien que diminué à la suite des pressions le diplomate relève également que ce fut " la reprise par les fardc de la route principale de connexion entre le m23 et le rwanda qui [ diminua ] gravement tout soutien de l 'armée rwandaise aux rebelles congolais . "
même son de cloche à kinshasa .
" jusqu 'au dernier jour de l 'offensive triomphante des fardc , le rwanda a continué à apporter son soutien aux rebelles du m23 " , affirme lambert mende .
pour le porte-parole du gouvernement congolais , le rapport du groupe d 'experts onusiens ne vient que " confirmer ce que les autorités congolaises n 'ont cessé de autant d 'accusations qui , selon les diplomates rwandais , ne constituent qu 'un ramassis de " mensonges " .
interpellé sur le réseau social twitter au sujet de ce représentant adjoint du rwanda au conseil de sécurité à new-york , préfère , lui , citer un autre passage du même rapport qui met en cause l 'armée congolaise : " les forces armées , en particulier les fardc , demeurent parmi les principaux it ’ s here , and fears are that it won ’ t be going away anytime soon .
flu season has arrived , and it ’ s making a statement at garrison high school .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
hotels and accommodation in bangkok least you saw khao san--wow ? ? ! ! .
but , the bag taking is getting much the " toy boys " have arrived .
it has a swimming pool and of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs.signature _ line bermuda insurers applaud agreement to share tax information with us harris-perry , who is african-american and a political science professor at tulane university , is the third msnbc host to apologize for insensitive comments in the past two months .
the location for the replacement indoor skating rink is not set in stone – just yet .
it is possible that garrison dam may be within a foot of the top of its spillway gates by this time next week .
the countdown is on to a celebration of historic proportions in makoti .
on july 7-10 , makoti will be celebrating 100 years as a town .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
fanshawe student union > interrobang > about us as if that is not enough , private schools are also accused of forcing parents to pay school fees before the results are out and without knowing if the student is going to pass the exams or not .
the fees are often not refunded in case a student has to switch schools .
for her part , the education commissioner prof eustella bhalalusesa said the government is aware of the problem and it has introduced a joint admission system to address it .
kasn public filethefts and lost property at bangkok 's suvarnabhumi airport in thailand scams and thefts are nothing new at thailands busy airport but be on the lookout as over the last year there have been many robberies , lost property , thefts and taxi scams and these continue to happen .
following the inside thefts of airport trolleys last year the authorities have beefed up the security at the airport .
however there are foreigners and thais who still ply their trade by trying to take what is not theres so watch out and keep your bags safe .
make sure all your valuables are in a safe place and do not leave cameras , passports , valuables etc in your main bags even in the left luggage-- you risk losing them and theres no comeback .
with the world crises & internal headaches biting into thailands economy there has been an upsurge bank robberies in bangkok and even at suvannabhumbi airport so you are warned to beware .
it is up to you to stay safe but we publish items for the unwary traveller as the airport security can still not get their act together although the govt have taken steps to evict around 400 taxis which is a good sign as at september 2009 .
my dept secretary informed on this .
her cousin was detained in bangkok for stealing a box of cigarettes in a duty-free shop in bangkok international airport .
he had paid for chocolates and a carton of cigarettes .
the cashier put a packet of smokes into his bag and he thought it was a free pack .
he was arrested for shop-lifting and the thai police extortion price was rm30,000 for his release .
he spent two nights in jail and paid rm50 for an air-cond cell , 200-300 baht for each visitor , and rm11,000 for his final release .
now would you belive this scam ? ? ? as it was on tv nation channel 13th august ?
a thai man went in a taxi from the airport in the back of the taxi .
the driver has doctored the aircondition in the car to make the passenger 9 / .
the old saying --- if they speak good english be on alert .
don 't take shortcuts as it may lead to costing you a lot more than you thought .
men in uniform can buys these easy--ask for id and get them to write their name and sight their id number .
yell to get attention but don 't give in ?
here is a link issued by king power that alledgedly shows the lady pocketing a wallet but was not produced until 2 months after .
careful examination one may see how a video may have been changed as its very easy to do to suit the situation after the fact ? http : / / www.kingpower.com / 2009 / index.php 6 / .
the economic crises has seen an upsurge in petty crime , atm muggings and scams so be careful as at 2009 and it seems the government cannot ddo its part to intervene .
mauritius tightens norms to check proxy tag on its investments the insufficiency of the current budget is known to administrators .
“ based on what we have here , the current funding we agreed to , we ’ re not looking at making a dip or a dive in the deferred maintenance .
it will continue to rise actually , but it will rise at a slower pace , ” said attalla . • invalid entry : please type the verification code again.români în lume | cadran politic între ierarhii bisericii române din secolul trecut , mitropolitul visarion puiu a fost o perso ­ nalitate deosebită .
s-a născut în oraşul paşcani , în 1879 , şi a murit în exil lân ­ gă paris , în august 1964 .
după studii teologice făcute la iaşi şi la bucureşti , şi-a desăvârşit pregătirea teologică la celebra academie ortodoxă de la kiev , făcând o vreme studii şi în centrul ...
în urmă cu un secol , take lo ­ nescu s-a remarcat în ţară şi apoi pe plan european ca o stră ­ lucită personalitate politică .
s-a născut într-o familie modestă , la ploieşti , la 13 / 25 octombrie 1858 .
pe linie ma ­ ternă se trăgea dintre românii bal ­ canici .
a terminat studiile liceale la cole ­ giul sfântul sava , perioadă în care a fost atras spre literatură publicând nuvele , versuri ...
nicolae de hohenzolern ( 1903-1977 ) , un prinţ al româniei prin europa cel de-al patrulea dintre cei şase copii , băieţi şi fete , ai foştilor monarhi ai româniei , regele ferdinand şi regina maria , s-a născut la sinaia la 5 august 1903 .
în calitate de fiu al familiei moştenitoare a tronului româniei , era nepot al unor capete încoronate ale europei având drept bunici pe linie maternă atât pe regina victoria a angliei , cât şi pe ţarul alexandru al ii-lea ...
despre românii moldoveni care locuiesc în rusia sovietică sau mai bine zis în republica autonomă moldovenească , înfiinţată în anul 1924 , ştim deocamdată relativ puţin .
în decursul unui deceniu de existenţă , întinderea teritoriului acestei republici a fost schimbată de mai multe ori şi o dată cu ea s-a modificat , bineînţeles , şi numărul total al populaţiei .
republica moldovenească ...
george emil palade & # 8211 ; primul român laureat al premiului nobel george emil palade a avut astfel un rol hotărâtor în evoluţia unei noi ştiinţe , despre care , un savant român afirma recent : “ biologia celulară la ora actuală este ştiinţa fundamentală a medicinii .
nu se poate vorbi de nici un proces medical fără ea & # 8230 ; pentru că tot ceea ce înseamnă viaţă este studiat prin această nouă ştiinţă ” .
fazliddin kurbanov , an uzbekistani immigrant in the usa was detained for alleged support of terrorism .
is kurbanov ’ s case a typical one or something extraordinary ?
can one speak of tendencies ?
why do refugees , seeking refuge from persecutions in the freest country in the world , wind up under the authorities ’ watchful eye ?
are the charges pressed against them serious ?
if they are , what makes them take the criminal path ?
who are these people ?
terrorists , freedom fighters or victims of special services back home ?
sadly , there are no full answers to these questions ?
the first reception center for refugees in all of central asia is to be established in kyrgyzstan newspaper migrant nsk is published in novosibirsk for the natives of central asia human rights activist tolib yakubov and a colleague of his left uzbekistan for alma-ata largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want anything let us in thailand ] [ read services offered ads ] [ read ads ] for our buy , sell , exchange newspaper read in bangkok , pattaya to products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] tops ] [ lacquerware pictures and frames ] [ jockey lg dotes on appliances , unveils rash of tvs at ces 2014 cnet- & lrm ; 14 minutes ago & lrm ; having already leaked the details of its 105-inch uhd tv and three new oled models — including a 77-inch set , the largest oled we 've ever seen — last week , lg hits ces 2014 today to announce a few other jumbo-sized uhd sets , including a new ub9800 ...
lg dotes on appliances , unveils rash of tvs at ces 2014 lg at ces 2014 : join us at 8 am pt monday ( live blog ) britelite windows , doors and conservatories set ourselves the target of offering the finest products at value for money. bandits , not rebels , but for the people living in the rukoko marshes , the cause richard , whose job is to collect charcoal , is one of very in the desolate landscape of tree stumps undulating away to " they are as poor as i am and have nothing to lose , " the rukoko marshes had warned everyone to vacate the area but nobody took them torched several houses in the area , " says anicet , one of the two other labourers .
on one of the ghost farms , cowpats dry in the sun , a few " the herders got the message and took their cattle to spate of killings were the work of gangs of " unidentified armed bandits " and but since a string of elections kicked off in may with opportunity for burundi to prove its democratic credentials and seal the end of " there is no doubt , the people we saw are not simple thugs , new kalashnikov assault rifles in the rukoko marshes and adjacent kibira forest. officer says as he trundles on through the swampy terrain .
james p. hoffa has a mission – to build the teamsters union into the strongest , most powerful voice in north america for working families – and he is well on his way to this goal .
hoffa has spent a lifetime preparing for the challenge of running the teamsters union .
he knows , first-hand , what teamsters can accomplish when they are united .
he is determined to lead a union that is a credit to its proud history . • member of the president ’ s council on the 21st century workforce fasten your seatbelts--because wisconsin was just the beginning !
we are ramping up our fight in the war on american workers and the assault on the middle class by taking to the streets in los angeles on saturday . it 's not just about red states and blue states , it 's not about ...
wrecking healthy companies and killing good jobs are lousy reasons to get a tax break mary had a little lamb , this inspection is a scam how govt loses billions of shillings in export revenue na polycarp machira most of the dealings also happen during the weekend when there is little or no surveillance at all at the dar es salaam port and other places of inspections .
on a visit to kurasini and nearby areas in the city , one gets surprised by the numerous unauthorized yards used by the clearing companies . & ldquo ; we do stuffing at a reasonable price , that is why we get many customers , and as you also know this is bongo we provide exclusive services too & rdquo ; said a manager of one of the clearing and forwarding companies ( name withheld ) who requested anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter .
players in the sector now link the secret stuffing of goods to the rampant ilegal trading in elephant ivory .
but the tanzania revenue authority ( tra ) is in the darkness as far as the secret dealings .
the pakistanis have monopolised the local market and now dictate terms of trade to producers and suppliers of raw materials as they have formed a network aimed at ensuring that the local tanneries are starved of raw materials .
by so doing , they let the raw skins pile at the abattoirs , creating the impression that the local tannery cannot absorb all the raw materials .
he added that a lot of problems normally begin when it is approaching budget session as the exporters know that the government may come up with a decision to slap a total ban on the exportation of raw skins and hides .
a recent visit by the guardian on sunday to the three major tanneries in the country reveals that unless serious actions are taken , the tanneries may cease operations , due to lack of raw materials .
refurbished in the late 90s , it is a very large and well-equipped tannery built to handle raw hides and skins from raw to finish .
mariam joseph , one of the casual workers at the tannery who talked to this reporter , expressed fear that there may not be any more work at the tannery unless the situation changes .
the mother of three children has worked at the tannery for at least two years .
the situation is not different at moshi leather industrywhere management has stalled the earlier expansion plans due to shortage of materials .
at himo tannery , at least two of three threshing machines for goat and sheep skins are currently not working due to lack of raw materials .
with the capacity to process 500 pieces per machine in a day , it operates at 150 pieces per day .
onesphory paulo , the company ’ soperations manager regretfully said sometimes they close machines due to the problems . & ldquo ; it is becoming commonto switch off all the machines until we get stock and resume .
so it may reach a time when the materials will not be available at all , & rdquo ; he said .
looking for value ?
why it might be time to try telecom argentina ( teo ) maradona : do not blame messi if argentina does not win world cup the extreme dryness of the air causes any heat that is radiated back into the atmosphere to be lost instead of being absorbed by the water vapor in the atmosphere .
the source of this energy is the sun , and because its heating effect is greater at the equator than at the poles , it creates a circulation in the atmosphere .
hot moist air rises over the equator and flows at a high level towards the poles , where it cools and sinks .
the equator is therefore a region of low pressure , and the poles are regions of high pressure .
the atmosphere is not a closed system .
it interacts with the land , the ocean , and the ice ; and the ice in turn interacts with the ocean.winds create currents in the ocean .
the annual cycle of freezing and melting of the sea ice around antarctica creates a vertical circulation in the ocean .
pet of the week : trinity sun apr 15 , 2012 01 : 18 am edt warm weather brings out golfers thu jan 5 , 2012 11 : 18 am est fire damages old building in downtown plattsmouth sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 18 am est the benefits of estrous synchronization sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 18 pm est farmers invited to see how soybean checkoff dollars are being invested sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 18 am est iz-bee jammies eases hospitalized kids suffering by giving them new pair of pajamas sat jan 4 , 2014 1 : 18 pm est boy scouts alternative springing up in nebraska sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 18 am est ’ all shook up ’ auditions set for next week fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 18 pm est restroom bid exceeds estimate fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 18 pm est mhs grad lands hunting show on sportsman channel fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 18 pm est 2013 : np ’ s year in review sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 18 am est county to learn cost ot put in well sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 18 am est nebraska state patrol ’ s hat trick sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 18 am est funds glide over the top sat jan 4 , 2014 05 : 18 am est teen remains in icu after sledding accident , 4 surgeries mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 18 am est blistering cold busts water mains in omaha sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 18 pm est papillion boy stuns rock stars , millions online sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 18 pm est conagra ice skating rink closes due to cold sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 18 pm est coldest in a while , but no records sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 18 pm est dodging dodge , round two sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 18 pm est us judge in nebraska says he ’ s killing his blog fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 18 pm est bezos rescued by ecuadorian navythe huffington post uk 14 : 36 5-jan-14 how to get there : from suvannabhumi airport , bangkok , buses leave all the time for pattaya and cost 173 baht to jomtien or & cost 200 baht to the bus tgerminal on pattaya north rd .
avis offer a limo service for 2,200 or take a train from pattaya to bangkok 33 baht then hop on the overnight to the police can 't or won 't help you if you hire a jet ski then you sink it or turn sharply and it fills up with water .
the motto in thailand " whatever you hire whatever is damaged stolen or lost , you pay " so you hire a bike , or jetski at your own risk .
you can however negotiate a lesser amount which you are nuts if you don 't do but never say you will pay as then the price remians the same or can now go higher .
to hire a jet ski can cost you around 800baht per 1 / 2 hour but in september 2009 they want 1000baht per 1 / 2 hour .
good fun but don 't hit anyone swimming or damage the jetski as it will cost you .
there is no such thing as insurance for jet ski hire so you do so knowing if something goes wrong you pay .
if you blow the motor then its your fault so remember these things if youre game enough to rent one .
for my money stay clear of the damn things & there is a scam at the moment as times are tight at the moment .
as you will find when it happens to you hiring a jetski can be bliss or a nightmare .
many of the jetskis are thrashed by their thai owners and they can be bought second hand at jssr auction for 100,000baht or so .
but most people who hire them are never asked to see a check sheet of damage or any dents rips etc in the coulings etc so once you bring it back the nice ride can turn into a nightmare .
some times the thais will not even let you leave the beach but as you have no money you demand to see a tourist police .
in pattaya they have 2 foreigners on hand at the beach rd police station .
insist on it or send someone to bring them back ?
these jetskis in pattaya & phuket are thrashed and when they start using oil its easy to drain them and let you hire it ? ? ? --guess who pays & the asking price for a a new motor min 77,000baht .
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire scam ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] congo-k : exclusive news about congo-k with africa intelligence congo-k ’ s hydrocarbons minister crispin atama was clearly one of the big losers ( ... )
developed by kamala bay ventures – which through its affiliates also owns park hyatt siem reap and park hyatt maldives hadahaa – hyatt regency phuket resort is the first hyatt-branded property in phuket and the second hyatt resort in thailand , following & # 8230 ; interested in showing off your cooking prowess ?
there ’ s still time to sign up for wally ’ s cook-off .
eurythmics to reunite for beatles grammys specialrollingstone.com - by miriam colemansweet dream : eurythmics uniting at beatles tributenew zealand heraldsee all 144 sourcesrelated eurythmics stereogumsee realtime coveragesun airway – “ when will i be loved ? ”
( everly brothers cover ) stereogum- & lrm ; 21 minutes ago & lrm ; on friday , we lost phil everly , the younger half of the great early-rock vocal duo the everly brothers .
and now , as a tribute , the philly duo sun airway have covered “ when will i be loved ? related the everly brothers out of wedlock births and the everly brotherstucson citizendon everly reacts to brother phil 's death : ' i always thought i 'd go first 'paradewikipedia : the everly brotherssee all 133 sourcesrelated the everly brothers 2 .
result of a study carried out by línea directa aseguradora amongst its customers during 2011 .
if your vehicle is off the road due to an accident , we will supply you with another one .
if you lose all the points on your driving license , we pay you up to € 500 to regain your license .
charles dickens ' stillborn baby and true grit in a second world war jail ... how kent is shaping the blockbusters of 2014 .
the musical talents of x factor winner sam bailey run in the family ...
start the new year with a bracing turn on the ice rink at calverley grounds in tunbridge wells the skies over margate will be ablaze with colour at midnight on new year ’ s eve , ushering 2014 in with a spectacular firework display .
wondering what music to buy in 2014 ?
andy welch rounds up some of the new - and old - faces to watch out for lilia martha cisneros muller - realtor in playa del carmen new york ( ny ) times-national * ( reg .
required ) - more headlinesi may be 50 , but dont call me a boomer mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 30 am est cbs news-world - more headlinessoccer legend eusebio dies at age 71 sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 40 pm est four men rescued west of guadeloupe after being lost at sea for six days constituent assembly members are equal , forum cautions rowdy mps na aisia rweyemamu click here for leafguard of the midland 'sfan page on facebook !
as usual , my offer stands : the first caller toget chip maxwell so mad he yells and hangs up on you getsa prize .
no one has been able to get to him yet .
( careful , though : any nasty personal shots will not get you anything but scorned -- chip 's a good man ! )
happy new year , and thank you so much for listening !
a few years ago , i had the honor of being a part of the usaf heartland of america band 's christmas show at the holland center .
at the end of the first half of the performance , i 'd come out dressed as the conductor from the polar express , we 'd invite all the kids to join me on stage , and i 'd get to read the book to them while the band flawlessly performed the music .
mauritania has been pumping oil since 2006 but up to now no local businessmen had ( ... )
rebounding revenues prompted tax cuts in some states — but not all of them .
not so fast : tax revenue estimates from legal marijuana may not materialize the manhunt for the boston marathon bombers has raised fresh questions about the use of domestic drones by law enforcement .
auxiliary bishop cautions youth on shortcuts to cash na aisia rweyemamu the prelate issued the warning in dar es salam yesterday at the dar catholic youth festival held at mbezi on the seashore .
it is not bad for the youth to keep in tandem with new methods of communicating but the problem is the lack of patience and focus in using advances in science and technology .
he urged them to be goodwill envoys in advocating for peace in the country .
prof safari said that nec is an important element in any country ’ s political prosperity , but the commission has not given it deserving attention .
dr godfrey sansa a lecturer at the university of dar es salaam ( udsm ) faculty of political science and public administration said there was no need for the government to rush in preparing the constitution as tanzanians had no prior experience .
david mlay a student at the institute of social work said the prosperity and future of tanzanians is in the hands of members of the constituent assembly , after the successful work done by crc. ippmedia.com © 1998-2014 .
all rights reservedwhat romanians want | cadran politic © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress geoffrey r. stone in his eloquent remarks the other day about trayvon martin , president barack obama closed by noting that , although we have a long way to go before we resolve the issue of race in america , we have made progress .
we are not yet , he said , a " perfect union , " but we have ...
i was amused this evening to catch a glimpse of a cnn show asking this question , as if either characterization is correct .
in my judgment , based on what i know from the media thus far , snowden is neither a hero nor a traitor , but he is most certainly a criminal ...
the supreme court and the right of gays and lesbians to marry dadt and the tyranny of the minority : the role of courts the mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax expenditures in the u.s. tax code but the rate at which it is claimed and the average amount deducted vary widely across and within states .
more there is no doubt that kasymahunov ’ s disappearance is a kidnapping with the aim of passing him over to the uzbek authorities .
in june 2011 , a day before his term was up , the colony ’ s court ruled to keep him in prison due to the renewal of the extradition case .
in april 2011 , the russian general prosecutor ruled to extradite him to uzbekistan , yet this was not carried out because it was stopped by the european court .
on the day of his release , he was sent to detention centre 1 in murmansk .
he was moved there by the security services and did not get his hands on his release certificate for the next 1.5 years .
on the evening of 14 december around 11 pm his phone was off , so kiril koroteev and elena ryabinia , his representatives , went to the village to see for themselves .
the flat had no signs of struggle and looked as if its inhabitant went out for just a few minutes .
the bin was empty , so he may have gone to take out the rubbish .
africa mining intelligence 's sources in niamey say the government has responded to the stalemate in talks on renewing areva 's mining accords - due to run out on dec . ( ... )
the push by niamey to renegotiate the agreements that tie niger to french nuclear giant areva is rekindling tensions around president mahamadou issoufou . ( ... )
the drama of areva ’ s hostages turned out well in niger on oct .
30 .
and the end of october was also the date set by the authorities in niamey and the french nuclear energy giant to complete negotiations on renewing mining agreements for areva ’ s two subsidiaries in the country . ( ... )
the oil and energy ministry in niger has had a new secretary-general in office since ( ... )
retained over a year ago to conduct surveys in the lullemende basin in the center ( ... )
man arrested in open and gross lewdness case fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 19 pm est mandatory boat inspections at tahoe cut down invaders mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 19 am est everly brothers ’ history includes a rocky stretch in las vegas sat jan 4 , 2014 2 : 19 pm est timberwolves to send shabazz to development league sat jan 4 , 2014 02 : 19 am est cheyenne man accused of attacking cab driver sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 41 pm est liz cheney ending senate bid mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 41 am est freezing temperatures for the polar plunge sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 41 am est pokes prep for mountain west sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 41 am est how much do we curse at people on the phone ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 41 am est busy year ahead for lccc and uw mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 41 am est ear bud use tied to youth hearing loss sat jan 4 , 2014 08 : 41 am est man arrested for allegedly trying to cut cabbie ’ s throat sat jan 4 , 2014 08 : 41 am est lawyer moyer angles for trout but tilts at windmills wed oct 30 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt watch out for wildlife wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt sportsman touts ’ man month ’ wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt new y ’ stone ’ bile limit takes effect in 2014-15 wed oct 23 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt the ambassador expressed condolences to families of the victims and wished minister of amiri diwan affairs sheikh ali jarrah al-sabah on sunday delivered an invitation to attend the 34th gcc summit to king hamad bin essa al khalifa .
morning work commute shaping up to by icy sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 08 pm est skiers stranded on chairlift at eldora during power outage sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 08 pm est buffs knock off unbeaten ducks mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 08 am est did feds really raid a denver pot shop ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 08 am est road to sochi : max aaron mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 08 am est frustration for dia travelers sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 08 pm est frustration for dia travelers as national weather causes delays and cancellations sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 08 pm est rivers , chargers try not to be ’ over-confident ’ against broncos sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 08 pm est bitter windchill for colorado on monday , but warming tuesday mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 08 am est tv pitchman bound for jail ... again tue oct 22 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt aaa working overtime to help motorist in winter storm sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 18 pm est superintendents starting to cancel school for monday sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 18 pm est boeing ’ s 777x is gone to seattle .
so what now for st. louis ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 18 am est cibolo to consider making a deal with walmart sat sep 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sample 40-plus cultures at the folklife festival sun jun 9 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fiesta celebration at mission san jos a fitting finale mon apr 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt create memories in bastrop sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt take a trip back in time to smithville sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rodriguez , two other incumbents win re-election to hisd board sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt pasadena , lamar ok bond issues sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt motorcyclist killed on us 281 sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 am est two in custody in comal murder sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 am est texas looking for ’ strong ’ coach sat jan 4 , 2014 08 : 27 am est sa man going to prison for stealing mail sat jan 4 , 2014 08 : 27 am est texas ag abbott kicks off gubernatorial run sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt manziel leaves mannings ’ football camp a day early sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt ag abbott set to formally begin gubernatorial run in san antonio today sun jul 14 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt twb asks for permission to establish msmes for women na george michael & ldquo ; our main challenge is capital .
that ’ s why we have asked requested the central bank to permit us to open micro-small and medium enterprises ( msmes ) in mwanza , dodoma and in dar es salaam .
there are 70,000 entrepreneurs in dar es salaam who are our customers .
in mwanza there are 3,000 entrepreneurs and dodoma 4,000 entrepreneurs .
we are planning to go to ruvuma , mbeya and iringa .
we are going to surpass our target of reaching more groups , & rdquo ; she said .
besides , many women live in areas that are not surveyed and lack title deeds .
and incase there is a title deed , it is the name of the husband , therefore the woman can not use it to obtain a loan from the bank , she said .
zara tanzania adventures ( zara tours ) has constructed a new and modern pre-school for maasai children in endulen village , in ngorongoro district , arusha region .
according to ansell the company would be contributing 20 per cent of the total cost of the school and & ldquo ; is proud to be working with partners to bring the maasai pre-school to the community . & rdquo ; zara tanzania adventures ( zara tours ) , founded in 1987 , is currently one of the leading mt kilimanjaro outfitters in tanzania and the largest safari operators in the country .
the government has enforced eviction of four defiant kigamboni residents who were resisting the construction of kigamboni bridge , the guardian has learnt " praying the mass anew " bulletin catchesis series on the roman missal , third edition meals ..
rates : single 1,300 baht per night to 3,900 baht bouble 1,000 baht per themselves up to the syrian arab army in barzeh neighborhood in the city of a string of sexual assaults by men disguised as policemen led to a california law requiring uniform stores to ask for police id before making a sale .
oklahoma taxpayers will be able to go to website that will list corporate tax breaks and disclose how the state is spending its money. to us as we know of many vacancies in thailand .
benga and killed a man and two women in cold blood , " pontien barutwanayo , a to the army two months ago two armed men who were hiding on their property .
the isale is part of bujumbura rural province , a stronghold of in a separate incident in gitega province two policemen on " there was an exchange of fire and one of the policemen was was " deeply concerned about signs of a returning climate of impunity , the if albina kurmanbekova returns to kyrgyzstan , she knows that bridenapping awaits her . ( 12 / 16 / 2013 3 : 12 : 51 am ) mauritania is to set up a special tribunal to prosecute suspects accused of involvement in slavery in a bid to eradicate the trade in the west african state . ( 12 / 31 / 2013 2 : 14 : 46 pm ) the evolution of north dakota ’ s fund says as much about the state ’ s nordic heritage as it does its status as the nation ’ s second-ranked oil-producing state .
a third of north dakota ’ s residents are of norwegian descent , the highest percentage of any state , and norway is one of the world ’ s top oil and gas producing countries .
it was a tough week for bar owners in douglas and makoti .
both communities ’ establishments were the target of burglars .
the first step to adopting a curfew for the city of garrison has been taken .
the pot at the end of the rainbow was overflowing .
the minister for justice and constitutional affairs , mathias chikawe stresses a point when speaking to journalists at his office in dar es salaam yesterday .
with the onset of world war ii he returned to active service and earned two decorations as the chief of naval operations .
do i need a lot of money to use the can slim investing system ?
you can start with a little or a lot .
since it takes a little time to learn , you can start using the system in a part of your portfolio , see how it works and then apply it to a larger portion of your portfolio .
but if one still fails to comply withe the law , tra will sue the non-compliant business person .
somalia 's al-qaeda-linked shebab said on thursday it carried out a twin bombing of a hotel in mogadishu that killed 11 , boasting it was the start of its campaign for the new year .
" this is the beginning of 2014 , " shebab spokesman ali mohamud rage said in a new year message , a day after the hotel attacks .
the shebab " takes full responsibility for last night 's attack that targeted a meeting of ... ( 1 / 2 / 2014 9 : 49 : 14 am ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedanswers to frequently asked questions : | the spectrum | thespectrum.com he added that tenants were supposed to pay 10 per cent of their rent to the authority , if not landlords are supposed to collect the amount and submit it to the authority . & ldquo ; majority of people in the country don ’ t pay tax willingly , so the authority expects to conduct education campaign on the importance of paying tax to the responsible authority , & rdquo ; he clarified .
if withholding agents fail to collect withhold tax and remit it to tra .
it is an offence and if the withholding agent and ’ withholdee ’ will be involved , then both will be jointly liable , whereas the required taxes and penalties will be collected accordingly . , natural family planning outreachworld organization of the billings ovulation methodbillings ovulation method association - usafamily of the americas loading plans for temporary use of brackley ’ s old fire station are being considered yourself a monthly salary which , if you are the director , will be can be reduced but it is up to bangkok immigration who will determine this a few months .
consideration is undertaken at the immigration bureau in bangkok or the province of the company 's principal place of business .
you are granted a unfortunately , denial of a visa extension cannot be formally appealed by an expiration of the temporary visa .
an application can be resubmitted after the applicant has remedied the areas of the application , which the immigration long stayers but you can only apply for the new retired visa outside the country .
the age is 50 years and you cannot apply in thailand although we have you come to thailand as you cannot obtain a retirement visa using a tourist you need 65,000 baht a month or 800,000 baht in cash in the bank here , no allow senior citizens to live for an extended time if they invest in a condo or this .
there is no " minimum income " like there is for a retirement tax and business statements assume you are employed in thailand ) : applicant has no criminal record in his or her overseas domicile .
this most tourism visas are issued on arrival at don muang airport for tourists but always use the thai embassy near you to apply for a longer with little or zero notice so please ask us for up-to-date info .
what may be the case for one person may be totally opposite for another person .
for law services bangkok .
on applying , a guarantee is required in any form , deemed proper , by the sochi 2014 : luge hopeful qualifies as tonga 's first winter olympian a better deal for kids in the budget ?
democrats and republicans say yes kazakhstan : nursultan nazarbayev to follow the way of german fuhrer ?
kazakhstan : review or chance to get out of the political crisis ?
the government of kazakhstan is determined to repossess energy assets the majilis or lower house of the parliament of kazakhstan commenced work mistress ' body may supplement the extradition request for rahat aliyev president nursultan nazarbayev is the head of the nur otan party kazakhstan : is the president 's daughter about to divorce rahat aliyev ?
why would nursultan nazarbayev want to be president for life ?
expert opinions nursultan nazarbayev is putting together a team of senior state officials to leave the country to « daddy has restored the balance » : on the latest staff changes in kazakhstan astana and beijing pooled efforts and rerouted oil and gas export from central asia kazakhstan is not going to chair the osce in 2009 nazarbayev : since the movie was made by a comedian , laughing at it is all right the tengiz carnage : some details of the scuffle in kazakhstan world war ii in philippines to be topic of roundtable mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 28 am est richmond homicide in the east end sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 28 pm est robbery suspect on the loose in henrico sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 28 pm est man charged with dui after slamming into a house in chester sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 28 pm est one dead and at least seven injured in nyc high-rise fire sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 28 pm est church document linksworldwide marriage encounterfor your marriageretrouvaillecatholic familylandthe integrated catholic life : a catholic e-magazine about integrating faith , family & workbirthrightproject rachel ( hope after abortion ) faith & family : the magazine of catholic livingewtn kidschristopher west 's websitetheology of the body institutetheology of the bodyinternational alliancetheology of the body for teenstheology of the bodytheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingone more soul pulling up to the driveway to ray and mary price ’ s a-frame house located on river road in rural oliver county , set the stage for an adventurous and creative encounter .
course tips hat to veterans wed nov 20 , 2013 2 : 12 pm est study of determination tue nov 19 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est jail renovations to be put to a vote mon nov 18 , 2013 8 : 12 pm est people in business mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 12 am est belleville trucker in for the long haul mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 12 am est wind chill to dip to 30 below for next two days in metro-east mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 12 am est womans body found in new christopher reservoir mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 12 am est winter storm ion sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 12 pm est ’ 6 percent rule ’ billing for ui sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 12 am est making the best of the snow storm mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 12 am est road dangers and closings mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 12 am est nato 3 go to trial : violent plotters or entrapped agitators ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 12 pm est nato 3 go to trial : violent plotters or entrapped agitators ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est nato3 go to trial : violent plotters , or entrapped agitators ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 12 pm est suspect detailed a role in killing of boy & 8212 ; but he was at the prom sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est in future , will speed limits be variable ?
sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 12 pm est enter to win a trip to new york to attend super bowl 48 mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 12 am est cps to close schools monday due to cold weather sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est cps announces school closings due to weather following ctu demands sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est cps cancels school for monday , snow emergency in nw indiana sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est teenage boy shot and killed in bronzeville sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 12 pm est sharks sneak past blackhawks 3-2 in so mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 12 am est quinn : winter storm will be ’ one for the record books ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est isp issues warning for all drivers sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 12 pm est sunday and monday cancellations sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 12 am est attire a key in contending with extreme cold fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 12 am est then & now : cutting building in joliet fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 12 am est after the snow , we may be in for record-breaking cold thu jan 2 , 2014 10 : 12 pm est washington mayor surveys the damage : ’ our heart goes out to them ’ tue nov 19 , 2013 04 : 12 am est panthers raking through the rubble tue nov 19 , 2013 04 : 12 am est luciano : picking up the pieces is washington ’ s new mantra tue nov 19 , 2013 02 : 12 am est secretary of state ’ s office waives fees for replacement documents tue nov 19 , 2013 02 : 12 am est car stuck in snow drift hit by semi mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 12 am est two dead in apparent murder-suicide in adair co . sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 12 pm est bill backlog growing again and so are payment delays mon nov 25 , 2013 12 : 12 am est " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . # pt1 _ login _ controls the french examining magistrate emmanuelle ducos questioned hicham ibni oumar and mohamed ibni oumar saleh in paris on july 18 concerning a complaint they filed last year for “ kidnapping ( ... )
chad president idriss deby has just formed a new government with a lot of newcomers ( ... ) for tourists .
any other visa like non immigrant you need to get in your own so please ask us for up-to-date info .
for law services & [ [ cambodia visas ] [ visa news ] [ marriage & visa ] [ visa ruvu shooting land olaba as mkwasa signs for yanga na habakuki urio former coach mkwasa had tendered his resignation and shifted to the ja with mkwasa notifying the club of his intention to leave , the management ’ shortlisted ’ a number of coaches and picked olaba , who is already in the camp to start training the team , he said .
yanga unveiled two new coaches for the second round of the mainland league yesterday , with mkwasa as assisting coach and former club goalie juma pondamali as goalkeepers ’ coach at the bora ground , during the morning training . • invalid entry : please type the verification code again . el huffington post : última hora , noticias y opinión en español ¿ usas un dispositivo móvil ?
dirígete a http : / / m.huffpost.com / es / para recibir las noticias de el huffpost para móviles ..
pastor , la enviada del gobierno para desatascar el conflicto de panamá ...
la ministra anuncia un primer acuerdo para resolver el posible parón de las obras del canal ...
sacyr y las autoridades locales se comprometen a negociar ...
profesor de filosofía del derecho de la universidad pompeu fabra y director de ' fair play .
revista de filosofía , ética y derecho del deporte ' el ámbito deportivo no escapa a esta controversia .
muy en particular , todo lo relativo a la posible participación del club blaugrana en las competiciones oficiales españolas aun después de proclamada y reconocida internacionalmente la independencia de ese hipotético estado catalán .
sin aglomeraciones , estrés , agobios ni esperas , sin limitaciones de stock o disponibilidad de modelos o tallas , sin horarios ... cada vez más españoles se decantan por hacer sus compras online , pero el comercio electrónico sigue teniendo que hacer frente a importantes hándicaps como el pago , el envío o la devolución .
con el populista discurso de aumentar la seguridad , el nuevo código penal de ecuador tiene todas las características de un modelo autoritario del ejercicio coercitivo del estado .
endurece las penas y aumenta el número de delitos , criminalizando conductas que antes no contemplaban una sanción penal .
si yo fuera el rey de un país y llevara casi cuarenta años dando discursos por navidad y otras fechas señaladas sabría hablar .
bien , sabría hablar bien .
juan carlos sabe hablar en el sentido del desarrollo del lenguaje humano , pero su habla no tiene la majestuosidad que se espera de la corona .
su majestad vocaliza como si tuviera una cáscara de plátano en el paladar .
por su 74 cumpleaños , le regalo el análisis fonético y lingüístico de su bonito mensaje navideño .
la cadena ser ha dado a conocer un informe que la cámara de cuentas madrileña ha emitido en su labor de fiscalización de los convenios y conciertos con los hospitales privatizados durante 2011 .
un compendio de chapuzas e irregularidades presumiblemente punibles .
permitir que el niño experimente es también darle confianza y ayudarle a crecer entendiendo que la realidad del mundo exterior , su propia verdad y la de los adultos no tienen por qué coincidir .
los niños nos recuerdan que no hay sueños inútiles , y los sueños siguen siendo la libertad universal .
la falta de sueño se asocia con una merma en el funcionamiento del sistema defensivo .
las emociones negativas y el estrés mantenido dañan la inmunidad , esto es conocido desde hace tiempo .
lo que no conocíamos era que los secretos vitales también se relacionan con más infecciones .
ha vueltoafpel rey preside los actos de la pascua militar con sus dos muletas el tribunal de cuentas tiene algo que decir sobre las obras del canalafp el pp cree que duran se siente " honrado " de representar a españagtres los regalos y otras costumbres navideñas que debemos a los romanos " contusión grave " en la pelvis de merkel por un accidente de esquíafp el discurso de una joven expatriada en la asamblea madrileña ( vídeo ) youtube " queremos tener derecho a volver " ¿ qué tal ha ido tu navidad ?
la de estos famosos , mejor ( fotos ) el mejor regalo para un bebé ... siempre es el envoltorio ( vídeo ) youtube un recordatorio de por qué deberías hacer preguntas a tus abuelosastiberrientrevista a paco roca 10 lugares maravillosos a los que ( casi seguro ) nunca podrás iraaron yeoman via getty images glendale glitters recognized as one of nation ’ s top 5 light displays fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 07 pm est localwork.com job fair set for january 13 fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 07 pm est the top 5 defense contractors in phoenix for 2014 fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 07 pm est pd : no charges filed in woman ’ s death at az gas pump sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est gilbert pd : woman claims man kidnapped her at knifepoint sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est woman run over , dragged at az gas station sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est trial to resume for az man accused in temple killings sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 07 pm est computer code is new language at school fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est whispering wind academy fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est smoke gets bystanders ’ attention in ahwatukee hookah lounge fire thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est funding for southeast valley schools to be big concern in 2014 thu jan 2 , 2014 10 : 07 am est tempe man pleads not guilty in fatal party shooting tue dec 31 , 2013 2 : 07 pm est ’ jewel in the desert ’ glittering again in downtown chandler sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 07 am est chandler ’ s lyndsey fry makes u.s. women ’ s hockey roster for 2014 olympics thu jan 2 , 2014 08 : 07 am est witnesses say man hit by car in glendale was lying in road fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est glendale kids to meet ugandan choir pen pals thu jan 2 , 2014 2 : 09 pm est dna helps id man suspected of firing at phoenix officer wed oct 17 , 2012 10 : 07 pm edt pusd may revamp pay system to address turnover fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 07 pm est police : peoria man smoked heroin with toddler in car fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 07 pm est boy in hospital after atv accident near peoria thu jan 2 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est optometric firm in peoria gets innovation accolades thu jan 2 , 2014 2 : 09 pm est pinal sheriff ’ s office : all 4 involved in rollover wreck were intoxicated thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est javelina encounters on the rise in the phoenix area thu jan 2 , 2014 2 : 09 pm est funding for southeast valley schools to be big concern in 2014 thu jan 2 , 2014 2 : 09 pm est police id woman run over , killed at scottsdale costco sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 07 pm est police : suv runs over , kills woman at scottsdale costco gas station sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est guinness ’ smallest roadworthy car will be auctioned at barrett-jackson fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 07 pm est scottsdale police arrest woman in car burglaries thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est tempe police search for 2 involved in hit-and-run of skateboarder thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est tempe town lake , dam among big issues in 2014 tue dec 31 , 2013 6 : 09 pm est tempe councilwoman ellis named president , ceo of non-profit tue dec 31 , 2013 6 : 09 pm est tempe man pleads not guilty in fatal party shooting mon dec 30 , 2013 4 : 07 pm est the best thing about exploring a destination that ’ s not known to many is that you go there without any expectations .
you don ’ t have anyone telling you about the ‘ must visit ’ spots or the ‘ must shop ’ things . ( 12 / 24 / 2013 2 : 32 : 35 am ) russia cancels export duties for gas and diamonds to armenia kmfm is kicking off the new year with a shake-up of its visit our events , fetes and fairs section to see which event is closest to you .
don 't miss out on all the bargains !
placemat for use in the community meal , or for families [ liberia govt ] washington , dc -in her address to the nation , " indiscipline and lifting the gag order " on december 2 , 2013 , president ellen johnson sirleaf highlighted what she called the " wave of lawlessness which is creeping upon the state . "
in order to reverse this potentially dangerous trend , the president has called on all liberians to fully commit to the maintenance of law and order , and ... ( 1 / 5 / 2014 9 : 30 : 09 pm ) eritrea : selae-daero inhabitants say community undertakings lay the groundwork for nurturing culture of work see stateline infographic : state of the death penalty in 2013 “ there ’ s lots of ways for ( death row inmates ) not to be executed when the legislature has decided this punishment is not proper , ” dieter says .
“ it ’ s messy for a time … but it ’ s hard to see that a few years later they ’ d bring back the execution chamber . ” © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedfanshawe student union > interrobang > 10 things i know about you ten things i know about you is a feature in the interrobang that puts the spotlight on a different student each week .
fill out the form below and you will be entered into our monthly draw for a $ 10 out back shack / oasis gift certificate .
your entry may be chosen to appear in an issue of the interrobang , or on the interrobang & # 146 ; s website .
note : you must be a full-time fanshawe student in 2013 / 14 to be eligible for the draw .
that ’ s good news for californians and for the obama administration .
how much can consumers expect to pay for individual coverage ?
in 1914 sir ernest shackleton and a crew of 27 set sail for the last unclaimed prize in the history of exploration : the first crossing on foot of the antarctic continent .
“ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko tiberius puiu is a journalist and a translator , a member of the romanian society of balkan and slavic studies and of the association of scandinavian and baltic studies .
he published a book on “ ukraine and the ukrainians , ” which gives an objective account of the history of ukraine and tackles the issue of the holodomor , the great famine of 1933 .
he was awarded an honorary diploma by the ukrainian ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressprotecting pets from cold the humane society says do not use towels and blankets since they become wet and moldy when the temperatures begin increasing .
under the sea sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 08 am est change afoot at one of valleys oldest nonprofits sat jan 4 , 2014 07 : 08 am est musician curt larson in tune on and off the mountain sat jan 4 , 2014 07 : 08 am est citys expert : ute city building not ada-compliant fri jan 3 , 2014 07 : 08 am est alleged gun buyer in clements case due in court tue apr 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am edt one dead , two injured in plane crash sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 08 pm est sage grouse meeting in rifle thu oct 31 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt thief at cmu caught on camera thu oct 31 , 2013 3 : 08 pm edt avs goalie varlamov ’ s agent says allegations false thu oct 31 , 2013 1 : 08 pm edt smokers try new option to quit for good sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 08 pm est gjpd searching for firearm suspect sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 08 pm est vietnam era ambulance hit by suv sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 08 pm est criminal justice department to get new software mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 08 am est children ’ s nature center opens its doors in fruita sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 08 am est flu responsible for eagle county womans death sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 08 pm est pot tourism ?
not on vail mountain , officials say sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 08 pm est dc-7 grille still set for nsb takeoff , but no date set mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est flagler county grocer gives back to community mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est flagler schools may buy supers contract mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est fhp reports fatal edgewater crash mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est a lot riding on today ’ s spacex launch mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est mc assembly to stay if it gets a break mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est aarp beefs up smart driver course in 2014 mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est maricamp road to get traffic control system sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est garden groupies meet at dunnellon nursery sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est body of missing boater found sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est report : ucf ’ s bortles to enter nfl draft sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est ucf qb will enter nfl draft mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est man loses job at health first because of new flu shot requirement sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est woman ’ s body recovered in lake pickett after canoe capsizes sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est shooting at alta westgate apartments leaves two injured and one dead mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est ucf quarterback blake bortles to declare for nfl draft sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est pregnant women encouraged to get flu shots sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est body found of woman who disappeared on lake pickett when her canoe capsized sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est spacex preps for monday launch of falcon 9 rocket sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est exclusive : tupperware seeks osceola ok for new 100-acre mixed-use project fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est ’ blackfish ’ lessons : why workers should speak out in times of crisis fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est expert : seaworld right to encourage workers ’ ’ blackfish ’ vote fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est um coach al golden : ’ i am not a candidate for another position ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est ’ frozen ’ ices competition to win post-holiday box office race sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est fsu releases terms of jimbo fisher ’ s new contract sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est abram , prosch clear the way for auburn , florida state ’ s success sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est 01 / 06 : new businesses sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est cora fulmore : despite recovery , many can ’ t pay their mortgages sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est groveland to vote on hiring of redmond jones ii as city manager sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est after a ’ terrific ’ year , mount dora ’ s jordan ozerities celebrates ucf ’ s fiesta bowl win fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est community garden gives a man his sense of place sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est central florida ’ s first baby of 2014 ?
it ’ s a tie !
wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est unsolved homicides haunt families , detectives tue dec 31 , 2013 6 : 11 pm est report : seaworld aquatica guests ripped off by credit-card skimmer sat dec 28 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est protective dachshund adopts paralyzed cat fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est defiant longwood homeowner fined $ 130,000 over messy yard fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est jim greer , ex-florida gop chair , now sells recliners fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est will seaworld face long-term ’ blackfish ’ backlash ?
wed dec 11 , 2013 8 : 10 pm est there ’ s a few new kids on the block thu oct 17 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt is it lack of follows or is it peer pressure ?
or perhaps is it a combination of the two ?
so what is the life span of a religion ?
looking at the pictures of the many “ dead ” gods , i can ’ t help but wonder if one day soon the figures of christianity will one day lay among athena and freya , a myth that we foolish people of the past believed in. in projects throughout the county - not only leading to a healthier trekking out to the countryside - it can begin at home , even with a aspokesman said : " kwt aims to encourage people of all ages and abilities to get outdoors and reap the health benefits that the wildlife trust has also campaigned for a white paper on the homelatest newscosta blanca newsnews southletters to the editorsocial sceneclassifiedsairport servicewebcams on the coastcosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery three companies , two national and one foreign are fighting it out in a bid to purchase the hotel selomar in benidorm.the hotel , which is situated on playa & # 8230 ; uruguay president signed the law to legalize marijuana on christmas eve december 2 , 2013 i am waiting to see if the jamaican government and the 13 jamaicans who were kicked out of trinidad will take their case to the ccj just as was done with barbados where a single jamaican was denied entry .
i am waiting !
it is known that we in the caribbean can at times ... jquery banner rotatorrevoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia mea stiintifica si religioasa m-a ajutat sa cercetez faptele în mod obiectiv , eliberat de ura sau intoleranta .
recunosc însa o anume încrâncenare în ceea ce am scris venita din durerea unui om care a trait în miezul evenimentelor si se simte lovit de acceptarea cinica a crimelor , abuzurilor , coruptiei si minciunii , sau de indiferenta la fel de cinica cu care sunt înca privite de catre o mare parte a societatii românesti & # 8230 ; .
am scris aceste carti de pe pozitia victimelor mintite sau speriate , care nu-si cunosc sau nu-si pot apara drepturile .
le-am scris de pe pozitia milioanelor de români cinstiti care cred în adevar , în dreptate si în demnitate .  emil constantinescu « previousa fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal next aleksandr dugin & # 8211 ; „ russia strongly reject any presence of usa navy in the blacksea ” as new york gov. andrew cuomo ’ s tax reform and fairness commission put it , “ good tax policy , including a more equitable tax code , would limit exemptions and tax expenditures for the few and lower taxes for all taxpayers . ”
ivory coast ’ s energy and oil minister , adama toungara , met his ghanaian counterpart emmanuel buah in abidjan on nov .
6 to resume talks on the maritime boundary dispute between the two nations . ( ... )
ghana ’ s petroleum commission now has a new acting managing director , theophilus ( ... )
in a recent interview , i was asked about the growing gap between " the american dream and the american reality . "
it was a great way to frame a conversation that too many families are having at their dinner table ... and not to whine but , rather , for a better future .
for too ...
ben bernanke , the chairman of the federal reserve , is a great and honest communicator .
and many of his analogies have ended up in common usage -- be it the " green shoots " of an economic recovery or " the unusually uncertain outlook . "
the last few weeks have not been an exception .
this ...
the world has lost a great man in nelson mandela we can close the gap between the american dream and reality españa demuestra que a los políticos se les está acabando el tiempo immigrant visas ] [ work permits ] [ visa to iran : hassan rohani appelle au dialogue avec les occidentaux le nouveau président élu en juin dernier , et qui prêtait serment ce dimanche après-midi 4 août , a déclaré que la seule façon de communiquer avec son pays était le dialogue et non les sanctions .
il faisait référence aux sanctions économiques infligées à l 'iran depuis que la république a lancé son programme nucléaire controversé .
un message bien accueilli par les etats-unis , un des il y a eu comme un regain de chaleur entre les deux etats .
washington ne pouvait évidemment pas envoyer de représentant étant donné l 'absence de mais pour la maison blanche , & bdquo ; l 'investiture de rohani représente une chance pour l 'iran d 'agir rapidement pour calmer les inquiétudes sur son programme nucléaire « .
washington assure aussi qu 'il serait un partenaire de bonne volonté si le nouveau gouvernement choisissait de répondre à ses obligations internationales .
autrement dit , si l 'iran se montrait plus transparent sur le dans son discours devant les députés , hassan rohani a appelé au dialogue & bdquo ; sur un pied d 'égalité « et dans & bdquo ; le respect mutuel pour faire baisser les hostilités « .
et cela après huit ans de tension avec ahmadinejad . & bdquo ; on ne peut pas contraindre le peuple iranien à abdiquer par des sanctions et des menaces de guerre , a déclaré le président iranien .
un peuple qui , par sa solidarité nationale .
la seule solution pour entretenir des relations avec bilatérale et l ’ abandon des hostilités .
je le dis clairement : si vous voulez une réponse appropriée , n 'utilisez pas le langage des sanctions , mais plutôt un signe qui ne trompe pas : au poste clé de ministre des affaires étrangères , rohani a nommé mohamed javad zarif , ancien diplomate à l 'onu , bien connu des le nouveau président a dit le caractère futile des sanctions sans précédent qui étranglent l 'économie du pays .
le président iranien a ajouté que l ’ iran n ’ a jamais cherché la guerre avec le monde , une manière de rassurer israël qui accuse téhéran de chercher à fabriquer l ’ arme atomique pour l ’ attaquer .
enfin , il a voulu rassurer les pays arabes du golfe persique en affirmant que l ’ iran ne cherchait pas à changer le régime politique et les frontières des pays la présidence américaine a félicité le peuple iranien & bdquo ; pour avoir fait entendre sa voix « et a souligné enfin que & bdquo ; rohani avait bien compris son climate change may be to blame for disappearance of antarctic silverfish once upon a time , as the story goes , antarctic silverfish swam by the thousands in places like arthur harbor at the northern end of the peninsula .
like other parts of the polar food web ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  such as adélie penguins and shrimp-like krill ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  the silverfish rely on sea ice for parts of their lifecycle .
for example , the sea ice offers cover when the eggs hatch in november , torres noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit tells me that the population isnãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ t getting any new recruits , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhat weãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ re looking at is a population that is not a healthy one.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  the researchers are keenly interested in figuring out where the charcot and avian silverfish populations come from .
that job largely falls to julian ashford , a professor of oceanography at old dominion university .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit may be that similar events are driving the pleuragramma , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  ashford noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhen this fish is missing from the smorgasbord for penguins and other seabirds , [ the predators ] tend to decline in numbers , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œthe silverfish is the only antarctic coastal pelagic fish that is accessible to all predators .
it is extremely important.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  bitcoin is hardly a wise investmentsan francisco chroniclecommentary : bitcoin a dinosaur , headed for extinctionmasslive.comsee all 26 sourcesrelated money 1 millionth bitcoin wallet created on blockchain.infocoindeskbitcoin is it safe and how to be protected ? tottenham newssee realtime coveragesee all 7 sourcesrelated google wallet reform for a chance to live - an undocuqueer experience “ we ’ re not technophobic and i think drones can be employed for our benefit , ” says becker , “ but we can ’ t forget our privacy rights . ”
the head of the state communications agency ( sca ) of kyrgyzstan , mr. almaz kadyrkulov , told the vecherniy bishkek newspaper that local isps “ have the right ” to unblock access to the fergana news agency ’ s website : “ [ communications ] operators have the right to unblock [ access to ] the website , and i don ’ t care at all . ”
mr. kadyrkulov said these words after a local court ruled to stop hearings on blocked access due to the expiration of the statute of limitations .
uzbekistan and consortium of investors sign an accord on aral islam karimov and nursultan nazarbayev swear allegiance to russia and ask water from it the russian prosecutor general 's office resolved to extradite the first of the so called ivanovo uzbeks humanitarian assistance to the new arrivals .
the unhcr contingency plan is for 30,000 refugees , 15,000 in gambella and 15,000 benishangul gumuz. several parts of the city .
the cause of this conflict and the resulting ethnic clashes is said to be due to a deputy county commissioner kamunyan chedotum said the five were attacked by militias suspected to be boranas at odda borehole after a quarrel over the use of the water in the saturday evening incident .
tension remains high in moyale after four gabra herdsmen were shot dead and one seriously injured in an attack at a watering point at the weekend .
the attack is the latest of a series of bomb or grenade blasts in kenya .
" we are appealing to residents to help us get him . "
george clooneycourteney coxdemi moorejennifer garnerjonathan lipnickijude lawkeri russellkim kardashianmariah careymichelle williamsmiley cyrusnicole kidmanryan seacrestscarlett johanssonsarah jessica parkersofia vergaratia and tamara mowry african union peacekeepers in somalia patrol in a tank as control only parts of mogadishu .
the spokesperson for the ugandan people ’ s the addition of the 4,000 amisom troops meets a december request by the un security council to bring the force to 12,000 soldiers .
a far short of the 20,000 the african union estimated to be necessary at the start yoweri museveni to provide the remaining troops if supported by the available , then uganda is ready to do so because we have the will and the particularly ghana and nigeria , to commit to earlier pledges of troops for the to create an islamic state on the horn of africa .
stateline — as drought lingers , plains states rush to save ogallala aquifer see usgs mapusgs map [ x ] & # 160 ; where water levels are changingthis map gives a geographic snapshot of where and how widespread the impacted places are.return to the article . & # 160 ; & # 160 ; if the ogallala dries up ?
folks in the region don ’ t mince words .
“ that would be devastating , ” said nebraska state sen. tom carlson , who has proposed the task force .
“ we can ’ t let it happen .
we won ’ t let it happen . ”
“ the implications are profound , ” said kansas gov. sam brownback in an interview .
“ it is time to act . ”
for more than two decades , that ’ s what brownback has been trying to do — first as the state ’ s agriculture secretary , where he learned about the problem in the late 1980s , then as a u.s. senator and now as governor in the nation ’ s breadbasket .
but conserving such a vast resource is as difficult as it is important , particularly as brownback looks to expand kansas ’ economy , the straightforward goal of any state executive .
the ogallala ’ s future may ultimately come down to the collective actions of a checkerboard of tiny jurisdictions like sheridan , the guinea pig in brownback ’ s policy .
football : manager keith mcginn bemoaned a bad day at the office as ide hill lost 4-1 to coney hall and exited the inter-regional challenge ... secondsfinding the focus for a new year - michael atkins joselo : humor para formara un año de su partida física , el pueblo de venezuela recuerda a este singular aragüeño como un humorista con clara visión política al demostrar su descontento con la ... víctima de neumonía murió el bolerista brasileño nelson nedel artista , primer latinoamericano en vender un millón de discos en el mercado estadounidense , murió en un hospital de cotía , en el área metropolitana de são paulo , ... obra de atilio borón fue una de las más vendidas en las librerías del sur durante 2013el libro américa latina en la geopolítica del imperialismo , del periodista argentino atilio borón , fue uno de los libros más vendidos en las librerías del sur de caracas obra de atilio borón fue una de las más vendidas en las librerías del sur durante 2013 su encarcelamiento se dio en junio de 1812 en la guaria , luego de que juan domingo de monteverde y rivas , en violación de la capitulación firmada en julio de 1812 , ordenara el arresto de los partidarios de la independencia el año pasado la cifra de largometrajes estrenados culminó en 21 , y el número de espectadores en las salas de cine comercial , superó los 2.400.000 en todo el país , hecho que representa un aumento de 35 % en la taquilla con respecto a 2012 inscripciones para los talleres literarios empodérate cierran el 10 de enero las inscripciones para los talleres literarios empodérate cierran el 10 de enero , informó este viernes la fundación casa del artista , en su cuenta twitter @ casadelartista agrupación sabor a pueblo alegró navidad de pacientes psiquiátricos en caracas sabor a pueblo es uno de los grupos que forma parte del sistema nacional de culturas populares , uno de los proyectos vanguardistas del ministerio de la cultura , que consiste en darle oportunidad a los músicos y creadores del país para que expresen su arte con " antigala " comenzaron este sábado los festejos por centenario de nicanor parra homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsnews briefsclassifiedsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagespropertyphoto gallery the gibraltar government has published a bill to amend the animals and birds act to create fixed penalty fines for the feeding of barbary macaques . while & # 8230 ; “ if i was sitting in a commissioner ’ s position , ” he says , “ i wouldn ’ t have done anything to get federal money if it wasn ’ t the right thing for my state . ”
while it ’ s unclear whether ritz ’ s stance on the standards actually swayed the election , bennett saw it as a ploy to attract the support of tea party republicans who have been skeptical of the standards .
but david coleman , president of the college board and one of the creators of the english standards , emphasizes that it doesn ’ t have to be that way. a great quarter , and a great year .
but what 's to come ? " / > “ i ’ m sad for the flagyl 250mg repercussions of my actions , i ’ m sad for the people of lululemon who i care so much about that have really had to face the brunt of my actions .
i take responsibility for all that has occurred , and the impact it has had on you . ”
i find a similarity in that you both seem to be advocating to move on and try out some different types / brands / styles of clothing , if lululemon is not for you & # 8230 ; its just that the way wilson said it was pretty much the worst way to say it .
i don & # 8217 ; t know about you , but as a dude i still kinda get perturbed at ford commercials being all preachy on what a man is .
if you see a comment that appears to violate these guidelines , please click on the " flag " for that comment , and one of our moderators will review it .
visas : all borders are open .
don 't be fooled if you use a lawyer to procure your double or the privilege or should we say con ?
some lawyers ? are actually notaries & a few are ex clerks gone out on their own ? ? ?
typical price is 12,000 baht. in thailand you will be asked to repatriate that person back to the country of origin is close by if you are inspected as by law , the original is supposed to be displayed if the thai wife / husband decides to go on the dole or other welfare programs--- the us will pre-nup won 't save you so before you fall in love think of the futureyou could be costs are from the managers .
get it in writing .
if very few condos have been guards and a receptionist and office someone has to pay for all this , plus how they are paid .
if the project has different size condos in the same to work for you that you also require an additional 4 thais on your the labour office inspects you then you have your own files .
if you let your lawyer do then he / she may ask for a backhand to the amount of israelis in khao san rd & arabian minorities in sukhumvit ? we receive these guidelines we will send out to our readers .
to depts are lax but chiangmai is not .
plead ignorant if you haven 't been but if not you are liable for a 5000 baht fine or 200 baht for each as you will not be on their records .
this applies in rules for all to see on your work premises .
duration you to be in a better position should you find out your lawyer is overcharging you or you wish to change from your present law and vat certificate in a prominant place in your office .
as said before if you use a photcopy of your vat cert on the wall have case is different and what may work for one person may not the fiancee agreement ; if the marriage doesn 't take place you may not be person likes the usa before you take the plunge as laws in the us --- once married you are liable if she / he leaves the marriage for the rest of your life---- & a pre nuptial ---forget you buy and or sell use the services of a or open a bank account you must be the holder of a if you dress like a hippy & go to immigration be of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsthe silsbee bee syrian opposition says truce reached in barzeh in damascusburundi réalités des milliers de sympathisants de l 'ex-rébellion séléka ont manifesté dimanche la manifestation a eu lieu à la suite de la mort , dimanche matin , de trois combattants de la séléka dans un accrochage avec des soldats français .
réunis dans le centre-ville de bangui , la capitale de la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , les manifestants ont marché pacifiquement sur une grande la marche s 'est déroulée sans incident et les manifestants ont crié : " non à en rca , les soldats français mènent une opération de désarmement des milices armées centrafricaines , depuis début décembre .
ils sont aidés de la mission internationale de soutien à la centrafrique ( misca ) , envoyée en rca par l ’ union la séléka , milice officiellement dissoute , a renversé le président françois bozizé en mars 2013 et installé michel djotodia à la tête du pays .
c ’ est une coalition de groupes armés musulmans , qui s ’ opposent aux milices les massacres déclenchés le 5 décembre à bangui ont fait près d 'un millier de le pays menace de nouveau de s 'embraser , après la reprise des tueries république centrafricaine : des crimes de guerre commis par des ex-rebelles le commandant ayant mené l ’ attaque contre la ville de camp bangui des habitants de camp bangui , en république centrafricaine , retournent le 14 le cas du général hamat est un test pour le président djotodia , qui a déclaré qu ’ il ne tolérerait pas de comportement anarchique de la part de forces se trouvant sous son commandement .
si le gouvernement ne prend pas de mesures visant à enquêter et à poursuivre les responsables , ce type d ’ attaques ne cessera de se reproduire .
daniel bekele , directeur de la division afrique ( bangui ) – des ex-combattants rebelles de la séléka , théoriquement intégrés au sein de l ’ armée , ont pillé et incendié une petite ville de la république centrafricaine le 10 novembre 2013 , a déclaré human rights watch aujourd ’ hui .
le gouvernement de transition , dirigé par le président par intérim michel djotodia , devrait immédiatement suspendre le commandant militaire qui a organisé l ’ attaque militaire d ’ une grande partie de la province d ’ ombella-mpoko , rassembler ses hommes dans la ville de gaga en vue de prendre part à une attaque lancée contre un groupe armé local , connu sous le nom d ’ anti-balaka , à proximité de la ville bangui et a trouvé la ville totalement détruite .
des survivants présents dans la localité ont déclaré que les forces de la séléka étaient responsables de cette dévastation .
hamat et un autre haut officier de l ’ armée ont reconnu que leurs forces s ’ étaient rendues à camp bangui et que des combats y avaient eu lieu , & rdquo ; le cas du général hamat est un test pour le président djotodia , qui a déclaré trouvant sous son commandement & bdquo ; , a fait remarquer daniel bekele , directeur de la division afrique de human rights watch . & rdquo ; si le gouvernement ne prend pas de mesures visant à enquêter et à poursuivre les responsables , ce type d ’ attaques hamat et d ’ anciens combattants de la séléka ont perpétré de graves exactions à camp bangui et devraient être traduits en justice , a souligné human rights en raison de l ’ insécurité régnant dans la région , human rights watch n ’ a pas été en mesure de confirmer le nombre de morts à camp bangui , ni les informations détaillées relatives aux combats .
cependant , des habitants ont signalé que trois cadavres trouvés après l ’ attaque étaient ceux de civils .
le nombre de morts est la séléka , une coalition rebelle à prédominance musulmane dirigée par djotodia , a renversé l ’ ex-président françois bozizé le 24 mars dernier .
un rapport publié par human rights watch en septembre décrit en détail les meurtres délibérés de civils – y compris de femmes , d ’ enfants et de personnes âgées – commis par la séléka entre mars et juin , et confirme la destruction injustifiée de plus de 1 cherchant apparemment à prendre ses distances par rapport à ces exactions , le 13 septembre , djotodia a officiellement dissout la séléka , dont certains membres seraient originaires du tchad et du soudan .
les ex-rebelles de la séléka sont en principe intégrés au sein d ’ une nouvelle & rdquo ; armée nationale & bdquo ; , mais son commandement et son contrôle demeurent douteux .
le groupe , aujourd ’ hui qualifié afin d ’ enquêter sur les meurtres de civils et les incendies de maisons qui s ’ étaient produits lors d ’ une bataille qui avait opposé des ex-séléka aux forces anti-balaka en octobre à gaga .
les anti-balaka – des groupes armés créés à l 'époque de l 'ex-président bozizé pour lutter contre le banditisme – sont à prédominance chrétienne et comprennent quelques soldats qui ont servi sous le régime bozizé au sein des forces armées centrafricaines ( faca ) .
au cours des dernières semaines , la violence et l ’ insécurité en république centrafricaine ont pris une dimension sectaire alarmante , les anti-balaka attaquant des civils le 10 novembre , tôt le matin à gaga , des ex-combattants de la séléka qui quittaient la ville à moto ont informé human rights watch qu ’ ils allaient & rdquo ; à général hamat est arrivé à gaga avec une douzaine d ’ hommes .
l ’ un de ses officiers , le colonel ahmed akhtahir , l ’ y a suivi , également accompagné d ’ une à gaga , hamat a réquisitionné des motos appartenant à des transporteurs locaux .
il a ensuite demandé du carburant et des & rdquo ; dons & bdquo ; à la population musulmane locale , s ’ adressant en arabe à la foule réunie : & rdquo ; n ’ y a-t-il pas ici de musulmans loyaux qui donneront du carburant pour que nous puissions combattre l ’ ennemi ? & bdquo ; après avoir collecté du carburant et de l ’ argent , hamat et akhtahir ont emmené leurs forces à moto sur une route située dans une zone reculée , envahie par une végétation dense et menant à camp bangui , à au moins 25 le lendemain , le 11 novembre , lorsque human rights watch a cherché à confirmer à gaga les informations selon lesquelles une attaque toute récente avait été menée à camp bangui , le commandant ibrahiem yusef a cherché à dissuader human rights watch de suivre & rdquo ; nos hommes qui sont allés à camp bangui hier & bdquo ; et de signaler trois jours plus tard , human rights watch s ’ est rendu à camp bangui et a découvert un corps sur la route à l ’ entrée de la ville , et senti l ’ odeur de corps en décomposition .
une fois à camp bangui , human rights watch a trouvé une ville totalement dévastée .
les habitants avaient fui leurs maisons sans avoir eu le temps d ’ emporter des bagages .
des chaises étaient renversées , des marmites se trouvaient encore sur des feux qui s ’ étaient consumés .
le centre de la ville avait été complètement pillé , et la vaste majorité des habitations , abritant de la plus grande partie de la ville avait été abandonnée , mais quelques membres de la population locale étaient restés .
les témoignages des habitants faisaient systématiquement état d ’ une attaque menée par les forces de hamat .
un homme a expliqué à human rights watch : & rdquo ; les combattants de la séléka sont arrivés dimanche matin .
nous avons entendu des coups de feu du côté du terrain de football .
ils ont tiré en entrant dans le village , et les civils se sont enfuis . & bdquo ; un autre habitant a signalé : & rdquo ; dès que nous avons entendu les coups de feu , nous sommes partis en courant dans la brousse .
nous n ’ avions pas le de nombreuses maisons ont été incendiées , et de la nourriture , des motos , des vêtements et des meubles détruits .
une femme a confié à human rights watch : & rdquo ; ils ont pris toutes les choses de valeur qu ’ ils pouvaient emporter et ils ont brûlé le reste . & bdquo ; des douilles de fusils d ’ assaut et des fragments de grenade un habitant de camp bangui a confirmé que certains hommes du village avaient riposté à l ’ attaque des hommes de hamat à l ’ aide de fusils de chasse artisanaux .
on ignore si ces hommes étaient des anti-balaka , mais le groupe armé local avait la population survivante de cette localité vit maintenant dans la brousse près de la ville , sans habitation , sans médicaments , ni même la possibilité de bénéficier d ’ une aide humanitaire .
l ’ attaque menée contre la ville constitue une violation du droit international humanitaire , qui interdit les attaques contre des civils ainsi que la destruction et le pillage de biens civils .
ceux qui ont perpétré ou ordonné l ’ attaque sont responsables de crimes de guerre . & rdquo ; sans une enquête plus approfondie , le nombre de personnes qui ont péri à camp bangui ne sera jamais connu & bdquo ; , a fait remarquer daniel bekele . & rdquo ; les attaques telles que celle-ci contre des zones peuplées provoquent des destructions massives et suscitent la peur au sein de la population de la république l ’ officier chargé du commandement à gaga sous les ordres du général hamat .
il a déclaré au chercheur qu ’ il y avait eu une bataille à camp bangui : & rdquo ; certains anti-balaka se sont cachés dans les maisons et ces maisons ont dû être brûlées . & bdquo ; interrogé sur le nombre de maisons qui avaient été incendiées , il a répondu : & rdquo ; beaucoup … 200 , peut-être 300 . & bdquo ; il a expliqué par la suite que le feu avait été mis aux maisons par inadvertance par des balles qui avaient touché les toits végétaux .
interpellé par human rights watch sur la possibilité que 200 maisons aient pu prendre feu à cause des balles , il a répondu : & rdquo ; il n ’ y a peut-être eu que 20 ou 30 maisons incendiées … parfois quand un incendie se déclare , il peut se propager d ’ une maison à l ’ autre lorsqu ’ elles sont très rapprochées . & bdquo ; human rights watch a rencontré le général hamat le 15 novembre à bangui .
le général a déclaré qu ’ il se trouvait à camp bangui le 10 novembre , mais il a minimisé les dégâts occasionnés : & rdquo ; en arrivant à camp bangui , il y a eu un combat et quelques maisons ont été endommagées .
il n ’ y en a pas eu beaucoup , peut-être quatre maisons incendiées .
j ’ étais là après l ’ attaque contre camp hamat a démenti les accusations selon lesquelles ses troupes s ’ étaient livrées à des attaques contre des civils ou leurs biens , signalant à human rights watch : & rdquo ; mes éléments n ’ ont pas le droit de causer des troubles .
s ’ ils le font , je les sanctionnerai … je veux la paix .
je veux que les gens rentrent chez eux . & bdquo ; dans les rangs des forces de hamat , human rights watch a observé un grand nombre de soldats qui semblaient être des enfants .
interrogé à propos de l ’ âge d ’ un soldat apparemment très jeune qui portait un fusil d ’ assaut kalachnikov , le commandant yusef a confirmé qu ’ il avait 8 ans et était & rdquo ; bon tireur & bdquo ; .
lorsqu ’ il s ’ est vu demander pourquoi il utilisait des enfants aussi jeunes dans les combats , yusef a répondu : & rdquo ; les adultes s ’ inquiètent et parfois , vous devez leur donner des drogues , mais les enfants attaquent tout simplement sans battre human rights watch s ’ est également entretenu avec djotodia en novembre et lui a demandé quels efforts il avait déployés pour mettre un terme aux exactions commises par son armée et par les ex-combattants de la séléka .
il a répondu : & rdquo ; je ne peux pas nier que certains de ces faits se soient produits , mais les & rdquo ; il faut que le gouvernement de transition assure le contrôle de ses forces immédiatement et traduise en justice ceux qui ont supervisé ces effroyables exactions & bdquo ; , a souligné daniel bekele . & rdquo ; avec ces preuves , djotodia ne peut prétendre qu ’ il n ’ était pas au courant de cette attaque .
il devrait suspendre hamat avant que le général ne sème davantage le chaos au sein de la population , et il devrait ouvrir une enquête et engager des poursuites à l ’ encontre de tous ore. river can be a hot place for trout fishing sun jan 5 , 2014 05 : 06 am est ahtna chief ben neeley dies at age 99 sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 06 am est buccaneer selling cook inlet assets to pay off debt sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 06 am est son ’ s suicide sets soldotna couple on new path sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 06 am est fire in the sky signals first weekend of fur rendezvous sun feb 24 , 2013 05 : 06 am est fur rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 07 : 06 am est rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am est doctors : not enough alaskans getting flu vaccines mon dec 30 , 2013 7 : 06 pm est the bells are back sat nov 23 , 2013 1 : 06 pm est for homeless in anchorage , few options at night mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 06 am est feds announce plans for stricter wood stove regulations sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 06 am est denali commission to host juneau listening session sat apr 2 , 2011 12 : 00 pm edt jpd arrests juneau man after accident mon mar 28 , 2011 01 : 06 am edt committee bill limits scope of alaska oil tax cut tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rep : no ethical conflict in firefighter bill tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt fsu stands for fanshawe _ _ _ _ _ _ union ( answer found at top and bottom of page ) answer : former british solider on death row in the congo to go on trial for ' murder ' of best friend on the country ’ s january to march 2014 rainfall outlook , dr kijazi said it is expected to be normal and above normal in the southern highlands zone .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . .region-navigation " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.eveniment | cadran politic la 24 de ani de la momentul decembrie 1989 , în contrast cu visurile și speranțele de atunci ale românilor , avem o clasă politică imorală , tot mai ruptă de cetățeni , care s-a înconjurat cu ziduri legislative menite să-i protejeze privilegiile .
prefăcându-se că sunt în tabere opuse , politicienii mimează democrația dar pe sub masă își dau mâna pentru a satisface interesele îmbogățiților ...
românia a semnat , pe 13 aprilie , memorandumul agri de furnizare de gaz lichefiat din azerbaidjan via georgia .
gazul va fi furnizat pe ruta baku ( azerbaidjan ) -kulevi ( georgia ) -constanza ( romania ) .
gazele din azerbaijan vor fi lichefiate in kulevi şi apoi transportate prin marea neagră pe vapor până la constanţa unde va avea loc un proces de de-lichefiere / re-gazeifiere .
într-o primă fază , ar ...
în ultimii ani , ankara a lansat mai multe iniţiative menite să stabilizeze orientul mijlociu , prin facilitarea eforturilor de reducere a conflictelor şi angajarea în platforme regionale multilaterale .
ultimul raport al international crisis group lansat în data de 7 aprilie , evaluează angajamentul regional în creştere al turciei , în cadrul mai larg al politicii sale externe şi de comerţ ....
vladimir putin în venezuela : acorduri în industria nucleară şi spaţială extinderea puterii globale a rusiei a continuat în venezuela cu acorduri pe termen lung de extracţie a petrolului din bazinul orinoco şi cu extinderea influenţei ruse în america de sud .
premierul rus vladimir a vizitat venezuela la începutul lunii aprilie .
putin a sosit alături de ultimele patru elicoptere de transport militare mi 17 cumpărate anterior ( 2006 ) de caracas .
în timpul întrevederilor ...
merkel în turcia : integrare versus influenţă ue în orientul mijlociu cancelarul german , angela merkel a efectuat o vizită oficială în turcia în perioada 29 – 30 martie .
vizita s-a concentrat asupra istanbulului – care în 2010 este capitală culturală europeană & # 8211 ; şi asupra integrării cetăţenilor turci , prezenţi în număr mare în germania .
cancelarul german a discutat cu omologul său turc , recep tayyip erdogan , despre integrarea europeană , despre ...
atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse , în condiţiile în care războiul din nordul caucazului era declarat încheiat iar strategia de securitate , doctrina militară şi strategia de politică externă marcau drept principală ameninţare extinderea nato .
atacurile subliniază din nou instabilitatea caucazului de nord , lipsa de instrumente ...
acordul istoric pentru sprijinul greciei trece prin acceptarea fmi ca deţinător a o treime din riscuri , în timp ce germania a încercat lămurirea turciei să accepte faza intermediară de partener ce mai mult lumea liberă .
while he was a student at ena , the future president françois hollande was passionate about the horn of africa .
he even went so far as to organize a trip to somalia at the end of 1979 . ( ... )
a metallurgist by training and former executive of mirabela nickel , bill bent , is ( ... )
eu soon to send a special envoy to the horn of africa how asmara is going to pay its share in bisha sc again has cheapest gasoline in the country sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 25 am est police trying to identify two men at walmart mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 25 am est columbia man aims to run the 475-mile palmetto trail fri jan 3 , 2014 11 : 25 am est missing boater found safe on dewees island sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 25 pm est car crashes into store on devine street sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 25 pm est lexington walmart evacuates due to air quality issue sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 25 pm est sc teacher busted in prostitution sting sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 25 pm est city of florence to hold redistricting meetings sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 25 pm est upstate braces for arctic air , freezing temps mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 25 am est record lows might hit the lowcountry mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 25 am est while questions remain unanswered about why the young man left and how he ended up in washington , his mother expressed her relief on facebook that her son had been located .
the newspaper had run the photo of nick and was contacting martin to tell her that nick 's family had recognized him and was trying to locate him .
michelle simmons was certain that the young man in the photograph was her son , missing for four days. the capital bujumbura for suspected links to an islamist extremist group , he " on sunday i was walking around the city , i saw the magnificent bujumbura cathedral , i took pictures of it and a policeman arrived , " this man is suspected of having links to terrorism , as we would reinforce the au peacekeeping mission in somalia to counter the shebaab kasn public file كونا : : وكالة الأنباء الكويتية - انباء عناوين أخبار - الكويت صندوق النقد العربي ينظم ندوة حول الرقابة المصرفية بمشاركة 17 دولة عربية وزير مصري ينفي صحة ما تردد عن فشل مفاوضات اللجنة الثلاثية حول سد النهضة الاثيوبي المالية البرلمانية توافق على مقترحي زيادة علاوة الاولاد وبدل الايجار رئيس وزراء مصر .. تدشين مشروع اقليم قناة السويس هو البداية لتحقيق التنمية الشاملة المرصد السوري يعلن ان تحالف قوى المعارضة السورية يسيطر على عدة مواقع لتنظيم داعش انخفاض اسعار الذهب يكبد البنك الوطني السويسري خسائر تصل الى 9ر9 مليار دولار وزير الخارجية الامريكي يعود الى اسرائيل لاجراء جولة محادثات أخرى ديوان المحاسبة يصدر عددا جديدا من مجلة ( الرقابة ) الدورية المتخصصة lebanon news headlines he built his name on personally responding to his constituents , going so far as to give out his personal cell phone number .
so why , then , are the media demanding rob ford ’ s head on a platter ? also i definitely dislike that you characterize anyone who disapproves of him as a liberal , an elite , part of the mass media , or fed by the mass media .
how is the problem i said above , that he is a hypocrite , have anything to do with those things .
how does my being a liberal or conservative have an impact on what i say ? & # 8220 ; & # 8230 ; their absolute dislike of the man and their blatant disregard for his privacy , fed by the left – wing faction of toronto city council & # 8230 ; & # 8221 ; i find this article enlightening !
unlike the few misguided commenters i am a ( 416 ) rob ford supporter who has a job have a college education and am related to those with unversity degrees that also live in the ( 416 ) area code and suppirts the mayor !
last as has been noted on the web no one is harrasing the provincial liberals for all the tax hikes and destroying of small town villages for their purchasing of votes by giving in to all the people who want the freebies from the gorvernment !
temember toronto to hamilton we are now being told that in the near future we are paying $ 0.10 more per litre on gas for transit that we torontoians pay the highest land transfer taxes in canada ( since we pay a transfer tax the province and the city ) and that our taxes are on the rise for more councillors to spend on themselves then the people ! how many times has rob ford gone drunk as shit to a festival ? many times .
he was so drunk at one point that he thought smoking crack as the acting mayor of toronto was an ok thing to do .
how can we trust that if there & # 8217 ; s going to be a city-wide emergency or natural disaster , lil ol fordy won & # 8217 ; t be hammered ! the military strongman from attending the hearing of the case on monday due to abeyance and attempting to conspire against the 1973 constitution by declaring aware of his sickness .
the whole world knows that he is in the icu ( intensive against him is politically motivated and that proceedings would be a " show © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedsend a message to 1stheadlines driving in the car with my children recently , i mentioned a briefing on drone warfare that i hosted .
one of my eight-year-old twins , stone , said , " you mean that we go to the other side of the earth and kill people ? "
he was incredulous .
so am i. last month , i heard ...
should only seniors be allowed to drive on the highways ?
how you can tell when the deficit is a problem provisions of the data protection act 1998 , which you can access at in this privacy policy references to " we " , " us " and " our " are to references to " our sites " or " the websites " are the websites on our behalf .
none of these websites are controlled or operated by the km media group limited and are not covered by this privacy policy on that page of the site .
by your use of our websites and / or the submission of personal information to us , you consent to the use of your personal information on and subject to the terms of the information we may collect via the websites may include : transactions it may be necessary for the bank or card processing your preferences and use of email updates , recorded by emails that is recorded by our web server when you request any page or browsers can be programmed to reject , or warn you before you can access the websites and browse through certain parts of you wish to use certain services offered on some of the websites or if you choose not to provide the information requested , you may not be able to use the service that has been offered or obtain the to complete the purchase or provide the after sales service , and we information to you on other products and services , and if you have ip addresses for the purposes of ensuring we understand your to improve the websites .
in respect of ip addresses we need this limited cannot guarantee or insure the security of any information recommend that you do not provide any passwords to anyone .
nor does information when you are using the internet if you are not for any of your passwords or any other personal information in an the use of cookies is an industry standard , and many websites use are initially set to accept cookies .
if you would prefer , you can operate properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by it .
when you visit any of the websites your ip address will be you are entitled to change , update , amend and delete any you have the right to request a copy of any information that km if you have any questions about our privacy policy or the tanzania wants to renegotiate some sections of the deal it inked with its ugandan neighbour in september 2011 for the construction of a hydro-electric dam . ( ... )
the french major is expected by the end of the year to submit papers to uganda ’ s government to indicate where it plans to drill . ( ... )
the inauguration of the china-africa friendship association uganda in kampala at ( ... )
frelimo has not yet officially settled the question of who will succeed armando guebuza in 2014 .
plenty of hypotheses and names are doing the rounds . ( ... )
shell ’ s executives travel regularly to maputo to try to root out market opportunities . ( ... )
retired generaljacinto veloso who turned his hand to the mining business has every ( ... )
one of the two sons of environment minister alcinda abreu , dingane abreu mamadhusen ( ... )
mkwasa finds players ' morale low , await new coach na habakuki urio he said in an interview yesterday that expectations of the players with regard to the coming of a new coach , his nationality and other issues was taking its toll on the mood of the players .
if a man is interested in entering the formation program for the diocese , a member of our vocation team will help him determine at what level he should enter .
if he is older than college age and considering the priesthood , he should contact a member of the vocation team as there are programs for older men who are seriously reflecting upon the lord ’ s call to priesthood.below are links to some of the seminaries used by the diocese of duluth.immaculate heart of mary seminary , winona , mnst .
john vianney seminaryst .
john vianney theological seminary , denver , copontifical north american collegest .
paul seminarymundelein seminaryst .
meinrad seminary lăcomia iraniană din satul francez | cadran politic de multe dintre ele te poți feri studiind cu atenție actele , verificând bonitatea și activitatea precedentă a dezvoltatorului .
dar ce te faci când țeapa apare mult după ce ai cumpărat ?
când dezvoltatorului îi vine ideea de a mai adăuga două etaje construcției și o încropeală stranie pe post de parcare acoperită , mai degrabă șopron de la țară ?
este vorba de complexul persepolis , din nordul bucureștiului , la doi pași de parcul herăstrău , construit de omului de afaceri iranian manochehr saadati sohi & # 8211 ; unul din patronii antrefrig , care a vandut bradul de pate , în 2007 , către firma cehă hame .
el afirma ca a decis să vândă brandul de pateuri antrefrig și o parte din utilajele de producție către filiala producătorului ceh pentru a își putea dezvolta afacerile în sectorul imobiliar .
iranianul manochehr saadati sohi a investit în complexul persepolis , care , la deschidere , arăta foarte bine .
un hotel de lux , înconjurat de 3 corpuri de locuințe și o curte ca zonă de promenadă pentru locatari .
un apartament în complex costa de la jumătate de milion de euro în sus .
construirea hotelului în zona amintita a fost cel puțin controversată , asemenea multor altor clădiri din satul francez , printre neregulile semnalate autorităților de vecini fiind ocuparea trotuarului cu un gard .
patronul iranian a împins peste noapte „ granițele proprietății “ ocupând trotuarul .
astfel , hotelul „ persepolis “ a înhățat cei câțiva pomi aflați pe marginea trotuarului , creând în curtea localului de cinci stele o pădure în miniatura .
suprafața aproximativă ocupată nelegal & # 8211 ; așa cum susțineau autoritățile la vremea respectivă & # 8211 ; ar depăși 175 de metri pătrați , în condițiile în care prețul plătit în schimbul unui singur metru în zonăara atunci de 1.500 de euro .
un calcul simplu arata ca persopolis ar fi facut doar din furtul trotuarului o afacere de peste 250.000 de euro .
după cinci ani de la neregulile inițiale , patronul iranian manochehr saadati sohi începe o serie nouă încălcări ale legii , decizând să înalțe corpul hotelului cu două etaje plus mansardă și să improvizeze o parcare ( doar a iranianului ) acoperită în curte , în cel mai rural stil românesc , semănând cu un adăpost pentru vite , fără a mai solicita autorizație de construire pentru modificări , înhățând de data aceasta spațiul de promenada al locatarilor .
sesizată , primăria sectorului 1 răspunde : „ pentru supraînălțarea cu două niveluri a construcției situate în str .
virgil madgearu nr .
27 , societatea s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. a fost sancționată prin procesul verbal de constatare și sancționare a contravenției seria a nr .
0000123 / 07.06.2012 dispunându-se totodată oprirea lucrărilor și intrarea în legalitate prin obținerea unei noi autorizații de construire pentru lucrările efectuate sau aducerea imobilului la starea inițială .
întrucât societatea în cauză nu a respectat măsura de oprire a lucrărilor , prin adresa nr .
1523 / 08.11.2012 , a fost sesizată poliția sectorului 1 sub aspectul săvârșirii infracțiunii prevăzută la articolul 24 , lit. b , din legea nr .
50 / 1991 , republicată , dosarul fiind în lucru .
de asemenea , pentru neaducerea la îndeplinire a măsurilor dispuse în procesul verbal de constatare și sancționare a contravenției , prin adresa nr .
21190 / 27.11.2012 , s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. a fost chemată în judecată cerându-se în instanță desființarea celor două etaje construite ilegal , cererea respectivă făcând obiectul dosarului nr .
56297 / 299 / 2012 .
prin sentința civilă nr .
149797 / 26.07.2013 judecătoria sectorului 1 admite cererea poliției locale sector 1 și obligă pârâtul ( s.c. persepolis development s.r.l. ) să desființeze lucrările executate fără autorizație de construire .
prin adresa nr .
56297 / 299 / 17.10.2013 serviciul juridic din cadrul instituției noastre a cerut instanței investirea hotărârii judecătorești respective cu mențiunea definitivă și irevocabilă , urmând ca ulterior hotărârea judecătorească să fie pusă în aplicare prin intermediul executorului judecătoresc . ”
evident că iranianul ignoră decizia instanței , astfel că circul continuă .
ne întrebăm cum poate o srl , respectiv sc persepolis developement srl , să construiască timp de doi ani fără autorizație ?
de ce au fost lăsate lucrările să continue ?
manochehr saadati sohi este din anul 2010 și președintele asociației de locatari , deși nu locuiește în romania & # 8211 ; normele de aplicare a legii 230 / 2007 prevăd că președintele poate lipsi cel mult trei luni din țară , iar în această calitate taie și spânzură printre angajații persepolis plătiți de locatarii cărora le spune cu tupeu că „ se află în imperiul lui ” .
probabil cartierul de nord al capitalei s-a mutat la teheran și locatarii nu au aflat . ( va continua ) next emil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress prairie public broadcasting pbs programs a-z howard demchuks ’ angst began in may after a doctor in howard ’ s hometown of oxbow saw him and had him airlifted by the shock trauma air rescue society ( stars ) to regina where he saw dr. david kopriva , a vascular surgeon .
roma 's miralem pjanic has urged his bosnia and herzegovina team-mate to end his frustrating time in the premier league and join him in the italian capital ( 12 / 13 / 2013 4 : 33 : 43 am ) areas affected : beaver , ar | berryville , ar | eureka springs , ar | green forest , ar | oak grove , ar | fayetteville , ar | avoca , ar | bentonville , ar | bella vista , ar | canehill , ar | cave springs , ar | centerton , ar | combs , ar | decatur , ar | elkins , ar | elm springs , ar | evansville , ar | farmington , ar | garfield , ar | gateway , ar | gentry , ar | goshen , ar | gravette , ar | greenland , ar | hindsville , ar | hiwasse , ar | huntsville , ar | johnson , ar | kingston , ar | lincoln , ar | lowell , ar | maysville , ar | morrow , ar | pea ridge , ar | pettigrew , ar | prairie grove , ar | rogers , ar | saint paul , ar | siloam springs , ar | springdale , ar | sulphur springs , ar | summers , ar | tontitown , ar | wesley , ar | west fork , ar | witter , ar | winslow , ar * do not be outside in the wind for more than a few minutes and frost bite and lead to hypothermia if precautions are not taken .
if you must venture outdoors ... make sure you wear a hat and areas affected : beaver , ar | berryville , ar | eureka springs , ar | green forest , ar | oak grove , ar | fayetteville , ar | avoca , ar | bentonville , ar | bella vista , ar | canehill , ar | cave springs , ar | centerton , ar | combs , ar | decatur , ar | elkins , ar | elm springs , ar | evansville , ar | farmington , ar | garfield , ar | gateway , ar | gentry , ar | goshen , ar | gravette , ar | greenland , ar | hindsville , ar | hiwasse , ar | huntsville , ar | johnson , ar | kingston , ar | lincoln , ar | lowell , ar | maysville , ar | morrow , ar | pea ridge , ar | pettigrew , ar | prairie grove , ar | rogers , ar | saint paul , ar | siloam springs , ar | springdale , ar | sulphur springs , ar | summers , ar | tontitown , ar | wesley , ar | west fork , ar | witter , ar | alix , ar | altus , ar | fort smith , ar | alma , ar | barling , ar | branch , ar | cecil , ar | cedarville , ar | charleston , ar | chester , ar | dyer , ar | greenwood , ar | hackett , ar | hartford , ar | huntington , ar | lavaca , ar | midland , ar | mountainburg , ar | mulberry , ar | natural dam , ar | ozark , ar | rudy , ar | uniontown , ar | van buren , ar | winslow , ar and it is now in effect until noon cst today ...
be a mix of freezing rain and sleet before changing to all snow * wind chills are expected to be as low as 15 degrees below zero . * frost bite and hypothermia are possible if precautions are not areas affected : bluff city , ar | calion , ar | el dorado , ar | emerson , ar | huttig , ar | junction city , ar | lawson , ar | mc neil , ar | magnolia , ar | mount holly , ar | norphlet , ar | smackover , ar | strong , ar | urbana , ar | waldo , ar | hope , ar | alleene , ar | ashdown , ar | ben lomond , ar | blevins , ar | bradley , ar | buckner , ar | cale , ar | columbus , ar | de queen , ar | dierks , ar | doddridge , ar | emmet , ar | foreman , ar | fouke , ar | fulton , ar | garland city , ar | genoa , ar | gillham , ar | horatio , ar | lewisville , ar | lockesburg , ar | mc caskill , ar | mineral springs , ar | nashville , ar | ogden , ar | texarkana , ar | ozan , ar | prescott , ar | rosston , ar | saratoga , ar | stamps , ar | taylor , ar | washington , ar | willisville , ar | wilton , ar | winthrop , ar | umpire , ar the national weather service in shreveport has issued a wind kasn public filesaturday basketball doubleheader on as scheduled - fox16.com crowder returns to district 4 mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est two men caught in act of burglarizing bluefield home mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est tips for winter car maintenance sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 20 pm est silver alert issued for pocahontas county man sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 20 pm est car flips , driver trapped in russellville accident thu jan 2 , 2014 7 : 07 pm est strict on the use of internet and there are no mobile phones so when you go there you are heavily restricted .
perhaps thats why there 's not a lot of arrangements " from abroad , visas can be obtained in bangkok or via of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsburundi realities & sbquo ; the issue of access and entitlement to arable land on repatriation , resettlement and reinsertion of idps and refugees in the ministry the commission , said his team faced the difficult task of reconciling the law & sbquo ; we have , on the one hand , the law protecting the occupant " on the other , we have a returnee who could not come to " some houses were sold by the government , how you can tell cassava field on the border of ntahangwa river in bujumbura .
a group of returnees aboard a unhcr lorry .
according to a " i was told it was government property ; there is no way to get the field back , " he said .
" another plot i owned is now occupied by priests. but i am sure there are traces at the land registry agency , but i know there is " i have been in the country for two years now but i have no right to my properties , yet when i was repatriated , i was told i would live in mugabonihera had counted on a compound he had in nyakabiga suburb in bujumbura but the occupants refused to leave , saying it was theirs as reintegration kit ; it might be cash to start a project , and it might be a mill , a welding machine depending on the beneficiaries ’ potential , " sindibutume said. returnees born in exile - are " culturally and linguistically alienated and this an efd machine is sold at between 800,000 / - to 1m / - .
tra mwanza regional manager jeremia lusana said the strike was masterminded by a few notorious businessmen , adding that his office had already conducted seminars for businesspersons to educate them on the benefits of the efds .
lifestylethe puckhogs take second in national song quest contestwhile everyone loves to win and “ jump up and down and yell and hoot and holler , ” a member ...
palazzese earns second straight shutout in 2-0 winsudbury wolves goalie franky palazzese did a lot to help his ...
telehomecare program helps patients manage healthone man dead in highway 69 crashsecurity cameras catch elf on a shelf moving in officeojibwe teachings at lansdowne public schooldog whisperer aims to save problem pooches taxpayers ’ wallets need liability protectionfinding the focus for a new yearan editor ’ s christmas wish listfifty years in the making " we believe that the catholic community needs to be more than ever a source of clear moral vision and effective action .
we are called to be the " salt of the earth " and " light of the world " in the words of the scriptures ( cf .
mt 5 : 13-16 ) .
this task belongs to every believer and every parish .
it cannot be assigned to a few or simply delegated to diocesan or national structures .
the pursuit of justice and peace is an essential part of what makes a parish catholic . " 2.here & # 8217 ; s why spain is an economic bright spot in the eurozone 9 . & # 8220 ; it is still a global crisis ; it is not over and the epicenter is still ...
how bright is your holiday spirit ?
fri nov 30 , 2012 5 : 06 pm est soldiers , family and friends gather for dedication at jber sat nov 17 , 2012 05 : 06 am est anchorage in top 10 for new startups tue dec 24 , 2013 7 : 06 pm est usman riaz named as a youngest ever ted comparison fellow apartments ] [ bangkok restaurants ] [ bangkok ] [ gay ] [ bangkok shopping ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsgenetic consultations a growing practice in nickel city there are up to 700 new genetic consultations in sudbury each year australia has claimed an ashes whitewash with a comprehensive 281-run win at the scg . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 4 : 15 : 04 pm ) ccm vows to intensify war against corrupt govt officials na the guardian reporter we apply the same " prove it to me ” logic to all the outerwear we carry .
we won ’ t just sell what sells , we trust and believe in the products we carry .
preschoolers dance to " pretty ballerina " during the mc dance company 's 2012 homeshow march 30 at the hazen high school gym in hazen , n.d. jessica klein , clara ginther and shanie dewitt perform to chubby checker 's " the twist " during the hazen figure skating club 's " rock the ice " show march 24 in hazen , n.d. in a blog titled " celebrating darwin : religion and science are closer than you think " posted on darwin 's birthday , february 12 , mit physicist max tegmark reported on a survey he conduced with eugena lee and meia chita-tegmark , the mit survey on science , religion , and origins : ...
for his part , human rights activist , onesmo olengurumo said as per the new constitution people might not get their right to demonstrate due to political interference. of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs ferghana information agency , moscow fergana learned that journalist sergey naumov is charged with hooliganism and sentenced to serve a brief term of 12 days .
the investigators committed numerous violations of procedures , and lawyers believe the trial and the subsequent sentence are a “ set up . ”
the trial was held in violation of objectivity and justice .
the court , for example , does not disclose the eyewitnesses ’ names and does not consider the testimonies of the defendant ’ s eyewitnesses .
tortures in uzbekistan : the position of former prisoner sanjar umarov produced sharp criticism from his " colleagues " the international campaign in protection of maxim popov is launched surat ikramov : the judicial and legal reform in uzbekistan is the plan , but not action kyrgyz lawyer with the un refugee mandate is in the tashkent jail the prosecutor general 's office strives to extradite ex-president 's aidar akayev kyrgyzstan : will lifers ask for the return of capital punishment ?
kyrgyzstan : recognisance not to leave and remain within reach for bermet akayeva un supreme commissar for human rights louise arbour in ashkhabad attempt to see the head of the supreme court resulted in assault and battery the turkmen authorities cover up the traces of the serdar 's crimes click on any of the names below for a full information antarctica has the cleanest air in the world allowing air quality monitoring with a reliable baseline . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedtracomani şi röslerieni | cadran politic posted by miron manega on dec 24th , 2013 / / comments off este de-a dreptul suspectă insistenţa şi , mai ales , maniera în care sunt contestate unele abordări în materie de istorie şi arheologie , anume cele care pledează pentru importanţa istorică a tracilor sau , şi mai „ rău ” , a dacilor .
toate sunt luate în derizoriu şi băgate de-a valma în cazanul comun al „ tracomaniei ” sau „ dacomaniei ” , ca manifestări patologice ale insuficienţei în materie de cercetare istorică .
nu zic că nu sunt exagerări şi aberaţii printre argumentele care susţin identitatea tracă sau daco-getică a culturii noastre şi a multor altor culturi dar , până acum , nu am văzut contra-argumente ştiinţifice sau probe , ci doar referinţe la alte teorii , calificative , ironii , sarcasme , băşcălii .
îmi vine să iau un anti-tracoman de guler şi să-i zic aşa , „ neştiinţific ” , în stilul lui ilie moromete : „ bă , domnule , ştii dumneata câte statui de daci sunt în lume ?
ştii , bă , domnule , cum sunt ipostaziaţi dacii , în acele statui ?
de ce , bă , domnule , erau atât de frumoşi şi de mândri aceşti învinşi , sculptaţi de învingători ? ” .
a răspuns însă , deja , unul care știe , un doctor în istoria artelor pe nume leonard velcescu , prin lucrarea sa “ les daces dans la sculpture romaine & # 8211 ; étude d ’ iconographie antique ” , cu care şi-a luat doctoratul la sorbona , în 2000 .
o fi şi el vreun tracoman & # 8230 ; inventarul grosso modo al „ impostorilor ” traco-dacomani , menţionaţi şi caracterizaţi de contestatarii lor , include următoarele nume : mihail kogălniceanu , cezar bolliac , mihai eminescu , bogdan petriceicu-haşdeu , nicolae densuşianu , mircea eliade , vasile lovinescu , romulus vulcănescu , al .
brătescu-voineşti , edgar papu , ca să-i menţionăm pe cei mai importanţi .
unii , în perspectiva contestatarilor , erau nişte exaltaţi ( kogălniceanu , bolliac , densuşianu , eminescu ) , alţii doar „ colaboraţionişti ” ai dacismului ( eliade , lovinescu , vulcănescu ) , unul era falsificator notoriu al plăcuţelor de plumb de la sinaia ( haşdeu ) , altul era protocronist „ fundamentalist ” ( edgar papu ) , unul era legionaro-comunist ( iosif constantin drăgan ) , altul e medic ( napoleon săvescu ) , iar brătescu-voineşti & # 8211 ; un fantezist care susţinea că romanii au fost urmaşii tracilor ( aceasta din urmă , la o adică , stă în picioare chiar de la prima vedere , dacă dăm crezare legendei întemeierii romei , cu cei doi fraţi crescuţi de lupoaică , descendenţi ai lui eneas , eroul troian & # 8230 ; troia fiind , se ştie , o ceate tracă , iar lupoaica / lupul un simbol tracic ) .
la lista de mai sus îi putem adăuga şi pe istoricii procopius din cesareea , flavius aurelius cassiodor , flavius iordanes şi carol lundius care susţin , nici mai mult , nici mai puţin , că goţii sunt descendenţii geţilor , iar zamolxe ar fi legislatorul lor suprem .
trecând peste faptul că , adevărată sau nu , teoria lui carolus lundius relevă , în cel mai rău caz , nevoia goţilor de a-şi construi o ascendenţă ilustră ( ca și romanii , care aub simțit nevoia de a se trage din dintr-un erou troian , ceea ce înseamnă că tracii aveau un prestigiu uriaş în epocă ) , este interesantă reacţia noastră ( a unora dintre noi ) de respingere a oricărei tentative de recuperare a demnităţii naţionale prin recurs la origine , pe motiv că falsificăm istoria .
cazul cu tăbliţele de la tărtăria este aproape notoriu .
suntem singurii care contestă vechimea lor şi concluzia istorică implicită , de mărturie a celei mai vechi scrieri de pe pământ .
referitor la această speță , savantul german harald haartmann , expert mondial în istorie culturală , arheomitologie , istoria scrisului , evoluția limbii și istoria religiilor , autor a 40 de cărți traduse în diverse limbi de circulație internațională , editor și co-editor a 20 de antologii , declara recent : „ tăblițele de la tărtăria reprezintă o scriere .
aceasta are o vechime de peste 7.500 de ani .
pe vremea aceea , sumerienii nici nu știau că vor deveni sumerieni ” .
ba mai vine și miceal ledwith , fost consilier al papei ioan paul al ii-lea , care afirma textual și ritos , anul acesta , în direct , la tvr cluj , că „ nu limba română este o limbă latină , ci mai degrabă limba latină este o limbă românească ” .
deci aceştia ar fi , în mare , principalii vinovaţi de „ malpraxis istoric ” iar toţi „ enoriaşii ” care le iau în serios teoriile sunt nişte retardaţi semidocţi sau sfertodocţi . în privința contestatarilor lor , aceștia nu prea au nici nume , nici referințe de calibrul celor contestați .
şi , în timp ce noi băgăm adevărul sub preş , ca pe un gunoi , teoria “ spaţiului vid ” din & # 8220 ; romänische studien & # 8221 ; a lui eduard robert rösler ( 1871 ) se bucură de circulaţie şi de credibilitate în toată europa şi chiar în lume , deşi este un studiu pueril şi aberant , care contrazice cele mai elementare cunoştinţe de istorie … cei care se iau de piept cu “ tracomanii ” ar putea dovedi aceeaşi osârdie în a-l pune la punct pe rösler , dacă sunt atât de grijulii cu istoria noastră … şi dacă nu sunt cumva röslerieni .
din păcate , aceste manipulări istorice , care , abil , invocă şi incriminează chiar manipularea , au efect în spaţiul public , prin aplombul cu care mimează autoritatea , fără a răspunde punctual la vreuna din problemele sensibile atinse de “ tracomani ” .
şi astfel fezandaţi , din jena de cădea în capcana teoriei conspiraţiei , acceptăm pe nemestecate chiar conspiraţia .
poate că ar trebui să mutăm discuţia din planul istoric în cel educaţional .
nu ştiu dacă noi , românii , suntem buricul lumii , dar dacă avem cu ce să susţinem asta , de ce să nu o facem ?
hai să ne uităm în jur , să vedem cum fac alţii : ruşii , americanii , francezii , ungurii , evreii … noi , de ce nu … ?
răspunsul , după părerea mea , este : de proşti !
eu cred că e mult mai bine să li se spună copiilor , în şcoală , că sunt descendenţii unui neam eroic , mândru şi civilizat , şi să li se inducă o responsabilitate morală pe măsură , decât să li se inducă ideea că suntem cu toţii scursura europei , ceea ce nu reclamă nicio responsabilitate .
pentru că , într-adevăr , nu e suficient să afirmi că eşti cine eşti , trebuie să şi probezi asta , prin propriile fapte , prin propriile atitudini .
demnitatea , însă , se învaţă acasă şi se dezvoltă la şcoală . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressdimensional fund advisors ' different dimension - barrons.com sealing youth offender records brings ‘ chance at a new life ’ in wake of u.s. shutdown , china stresses ‘ interests of all ’ special interview in princeton , nj by weng tai-sheng , wei pi-chou , and tseng hui-yen for world journal tiphares vs elysium -- welcome to the age of appropriation mangano announces increased dwi patrols on nassau roads for new year ’ s holiday auburn ’ s davis , louis reflect on ’ immaculate deflection ’ and ’ kick six ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 06 pm est the boeing company will not set up shop in alabama sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 06 pm est aldot treating jefferson county bridges as precaution for ice threat sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 06 pm est public hearing on epa superfund thursday thu dec 12 , 2013 10 : 06 am est fans weigh in on saban ’ s future thu dec 12 , 2013 08 : 06 am est dealing with wintry weather in the mornings thu dec 12 , 2013 12 : 06 am est consent decree and hoover ’ s bus decision thu dec 12 , 2013 12 : 06 am est adopt a pet 1-3-2014 fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 06 pm est dothan development : 2014 projects in the works fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 06 pm est wrongful death lawsuit filed in todder ’ s death thu jan 2 , 2014 8 : 06 pm est scott cook pharmacy in dothan burglarized thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 06 pm est huntsville hotel clerk robbed at gunpoint mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 06 am est iraq pm urges people of fallujah to expel al qaedaabc newsiraqi forces battle for fallujahwashington postsee all 1,142 sourcesrelated al-qaeda journalists who criticized him are in prison ; some of his earlier would-be kagame in september 1994 , just two months after the tutsi forces of the rwandan patriotic front ( rpf ) had defeated the hutu genocidaires and captured the invited to join u.s. undersecretary of state tim wirth and u.s. ambassador to rpf .
on the drive to his headquarters in downtown kigali from the airport , half the room was kagame himself , a man with a sorcerer 's air about him , dressed in a of kagame undoubtedly had been shaped by my earlier interviews with some of the 100,000 rwandan hutu refugees who had arrived in burundi over the previous two revenge .
and the united states and the u.n. preferred to believe that the tutsi the rwandan border .
at night , we heard gunfire from rwanda .
in the morning , we reported that the rpf had surrounded their encampment and slaughtered flown by helicopter to the site , the u.s. military attaché on board refused to unwillingness of the american military to allow any re-examination of the actions of kagame 's rpf was regrettably characteristic of u.s. policy then and now .
kagame has enjoyed a long relationship with the pentagon : he was trained at ugandan president yoweri museveni , a u.s. ally .
the pentagon has praised kagame the end of the genocide , the united states and the u.n. suppressed a report decade and a half , kagame has masterfully exploited the benefit of the doubt he years in rwanda and burundi to share his opinion of the president , he replied , " paul kagame is one of the greatest murderers on the continent of africa .
there for the seeming economic dynamism under kagame 's government to continue .
but we he said merkel 's fall occurred " at low speeds " but was unable to say if another person was involved .
montserrat caballé unveils “ armenia & artsakh : isle of christianity ” album francesco gianini is a big admirer of the filipino woman , whom he considers among the most beautiful in the world .
his previous stays in the country years back allowed him to meet two of our local beauties dawn zulueta and iza calzado , describing them as “ bellissima ” – meaning “ beautiful . ”
he welcomes the possibility of the [ … ] ( 1 / 3 / 2014 11 : 28 : 13 pm ) © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedaward-winning video by katie eldredge and hannah read on the bee over the past two years , for example , the return of the spdr s & p 500 still , at the end of the day , the following argument may be the best argument of all .
burundi : non louées , les belles maisons appauvrissent les riches ceux qui se sont endettés pour construire de belles maisons pour les expatriés , dont la moitié sont partis ces derniers cinq ans , ne trouvent plus de locataires .
ils sont contraints de vendre ou de reconstruire dans les quartiers moins chers où logent la majorité de leurs compatriotes .
un investissement plus " immeuble à louer " , lit-on sur la plupart des grands bâtiments , souvent à étages , équipés et avec piscine des quartiers nantis de bujumbura .
il s ’ agit notamment de kiriri qui offre une vue panoramique sur toute la ville et sur le lac tanganyika et de rohero connu depuis longtemps comme l ’ un des quartiers des plus sécurisés de la capitale burundaise .
depuis près de deux ans , la plupart de ces maisons ne trouvent pas de locataires .
elles avaient été construites lors du retour à la paix et les élections générales de 2005 .
la plupart étaient louées à bien payés , ceux-ci qui travaillaient dans des ong internationales ou dans le système des nations-unies pouvaient s 'installer dans une maison d ’ habitation à plus de 500 & dollar ; par mois .
mais plus de la moitié de ces expatriés , venus surtout dans le cadre de la démocratisation ( depuis 2004 et 2005 ) et de la consolidation de la paix , sont partis ces cinq dernières années .
même le bureau de l 'onu les habitations des quartiers chics ont , depuis lors , du mal à trouver des locataires .
la plupart des burundais préfèrent les maisons des quartiers modestes ( nyakabiga , ngagara , bwiza , mutakura , kanyosha , … ) où le loyer coûte cette situation pénalise ceux qu ’ on croyait riches .
" voilà près d ’ une année que je recherche un locataire .
le dernier occupant de ma maison a déménagé en septembre 2012 pour retourner en europe .
il me payait mensuellement 1 000 & dollar ; sur lesquels je prélevais 600 pour payer mon crédit bancaire , dit un vieux retraité , propriétaire d ’ une maison à deux niveaux .
le reste me servait pour la survie .
aujourd ’ hui , la banque menace de vendre ma maison et je risque de crever de faim . "
les nombreux commissionnaires qu ’ il a dépêchés avec 500 & dollar ; à la clé s 'ils lui trouvaient un locataire n ’ ont pas réussi .
" les locataires sont hostiles à une offre qui excède 300 000 fbu ( 200 & dollar ; ) .
c ’ est normal , car la misère frappe tout le monde : tous les prix flambent , le taux de chômage est élevé pendant que la la plupart des propriétaires , souvent des retraités , de l 'armée fréquemment , avaient contracté des crédits bancaires pour construire ces maisons .
ils se retrouvent pauvres et désespérés .
" je croyais ainsi m ’ offrir une retraite dorée , mais ma richesse est devenue la source de mes ennuis .
pour avoir beaucoup investi , la banque m ’ a déjà adressé une lettre de mise en demeure et menace de vendre ma maison .
ceux qui ont construit dans les quartiers modestes sont à " notre rôle , explique un chargé des opérations dans une banque commerciale , n ’ est pas de vendre les maisons de nos clients .
la vente aux enchères intervient en dernier recours .
c ’ est pourquoi , nos clients devraient bien mûrir leurs pour construire , certains ont fort travaillé .
d ’ autres ont volé dans les caisses de l ’ état , selon l ’ olucome ( organisation de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations économiques ) .
mais , leur problème est révélateur de la mentalité de ceux qui ont beaucoup d 'argent : au lieu d ’ investir pour le bien-être de leurs concitoyens en proposant des logements décents à des prix raisonnables , ils se sont lancés dans des opérations immobilières pour faire payer les expatriés .
ils oublient que ceux-ci , certes paient plus , mais pour un séjour limité , alors que loger les burundais est un investissement d 'avenir. plusieurs locataires à la fois .
d ’ autres les revendent aux plus riches pour construire dans les quartiers populaires .
quant à la plupart de ceux qui construisent aujourd ’ hui , ils évitent les grands immeubles qui ne trouvent pas de locataires .
" les propriétaires de ces maisons devraient changer de mentalités et indexer les prix au coût de la vie .
le pays est pauvre et certains mangent une seule fois par jour alors qu ’ ils étaient habitués à trois fois .
pourquoi eux n ’ accepteraient-ils pas de réduire le coût du loyer ? " , propose un membre de parcem ( paroles et actions pour le réveil des consciences et l ’ évolution des mentalités ) .
il est impératif de s ’ ajuster .
" les nationaux , même riches préfèrent un loyer peu cher afin d ’ épargner et se construire leur propre logement .
d ’ autres craignent d ’ être pris pour des orgueilleux " , précise oscar commissionnaires de bujumbura .
" souvent , il leur est pénible de mettre la maison à 700 & dollar ; , quand le locataire précédent payait 1000 .
mais , c ’ est mieux que de la laisser vide durant toute une année , estime-t-il .
pourquoi mourir de faim ou voir sa maison vendue aux enchères , alors qu ’ elle coûte des centaines de how do i find out about catholicism ? one of the best ways is to contact a catholic parish near you to let them know that you are interested in finding out more about the catholic faith .
you will be invited to join with others like yourself as you inquire into what " being catholic " is all about : who we are , what we believe , how we live our lives , how we pray , and more .
how can i discern my vocation to marriage , priesthood , or religious life ? • sweden and russia are the largest donors to the region four-year-old orion qurbonaliev is lucky to be alive .
just last february , the little boy was lying comatose in the tuberculosis ward of a hospital in southern tajikistan .
the bacteria had spread to his spine and paralyzed the right side of his body .
he was severely dehydrated and malnourished .
at least one of the victims - whose identities are not yet known - was the brutality of the killings is feeding fears that a new rebellion is been washing up on the banks of the river ruzizi , close to the border with dr the authorities said the corpses may be linked to last week 's attack in the during the conflict , both president nkurunziza and mr rwasa led mainly hutu set up a power-sharing government followed by elections in 2005 .
if you are still getting your mail on saturdays don ’ t be surprised .
commentary : narco-politics : how mexico got there and how it can get out the bollore group was fined by a court in ouagadougou for failing to ship in the turbine for the komsilga on time . ( ... )
president of the association des entreprises japonaises and member of the conseil ( ... )
but most investors , ritholtz writes , don 't know how to use cash opportunistically and it ends up sitting in a portfolio and dragging down returns for the long run .
atletas y autoridades agradecieron triunfos de 2013 en misa del deporteatletas y autoridades gubernamentales agradecieron a dios este lunes , en la iglesia de la divina pastora , en caracas , todos los triunfos que obtuvo venezuela en el ... maldonado augura que lotus competirá con las grandes escuderías de f1 en 2014una temporada competitiva con los grandes equipos de la fórmula 1 prevé para este año el piloto venezolano pastor maldonado , ficha de la escudería lotus , que iniciará en ... selección criolla de ciclismo redobla esfuerzos para la vuelta al táchira en bicicletala selección venezolana de ciclismo se prepara con entusiasmo para destacar en la vuelta al táchira en bicicleta 2014 , que se correrá del 10 al 19 de enero en los ...
atletas y autoridades agradecieron triunfos de 2013 en misa del deporte maldonado augura que lotus competirá con las grandes escuderías de f1 en 2014 selección criolla de ciclismo redobla esfuerzos para la vuelta al táchira en bicicleta venezolano luis velásquez entre los 5 mejores de la copa panamericana de triatlón en chile el atleta venezolano luis miguel velásquez se ubicó en el quinto lugar en la primera válida de la temporada de la copa panamericana de triatlón , escenificada el pasado domingo en la localidad de viña del mar en chile piloto giancarlo serenelli aspira a consolidarse en la indy lights el piloto de venezolano , giancarlo serenelli , quien compite en las pistas de la indy lights , en estados unidos , señaló este lunes , al salir de la tradicional misa del deporte , que aspira a consolidarse dentro de la competencia norteamericana espadista silvio fernández se alista para el grand prix de doha el campeón panamericano de espada , silvio fernández , se prepara para viajar este 15 de enero a doha , capital de qatar , donde participará en el grand prix de su especialidad el expiloto de fórmula 1 , el alemán michael schumacher , continúa en estado crítico , pero estable , al cumplirse seis días desde que sufriera un accidente esquiando en los alpes franceses fernańdez : venezuela es candidata a ganar medalla en esgrima por equipos luchadora de sumo cedeño destaca trabajo del comandante chávez por el deporte john muir , ecologist extraordinaire , author and co-founder of the sierra club wrote : " the clearest way into the universe is through a forest wilderness ! "
have you ever visited wilderness ?
if not -- why not ?
recently , i 've received a spate of emails asking how i remain ...
can 't see the forest for the trees : the climate bomb protecting lobsters , oysters and seafood one person at a time usi un dispositivo mobile ?
vai a http : / / m.huffpost.com / it / per huffpost mobile .
il gesto di fassina e il dramma di bersani danno dignità a un gruppo dirigente uscito male dalle primarie .
ma la minoranza dem è divisa , presto incontro fra bersaniani e giovani turchi ( di a. mauro ) ingorgo umanitario da pier luigi - renzi : " lo aspetto a roma " .
telefonata di letta , c 'è fassina , stamattina in visita cuperlo , speranza , errani e tanti altri pd ....
( foto , video ) ( diretta da parma ) bersani sveglio , ha parlato con la moglie : " che ha fatto la juve ? " . i medici : " decorso ok , ma va superata la fase acuta " l 'abbraccio politico di beppe : " ha sempre saputo che i suoi veri nemici non erano il m5s , ma compagni di partito e personaggi delle istituzioni " .
un riferimento a renzi e napolitano ?
a me , che ho rappresentato uno dei pochi non allineati ai vertici del partito durante la segreteria di bersani , non pare di ricordare nessuna voce che in quel periodo abbia mai denunciato l 'esistenza di un partito gestito in modo padronale .
la maggioranza faceva , anche piuttosto energicamente , la maggioranza e dava la sua linea .
succedeva ieri , succede oggi , continuerà a succedere anche domani .
la verità è che stefano fassina è l 'epigono , relativamente giovane e indubbiamente agguerrito , della sinistra tutta " chiacchiere e distintivo " che abbiamo visto all 'opera negli ultimi trent 'anni : radicalissima a parole ( nessuno più di fassina strilla contro il " neoliberismo " o contro l 'europa dei banchieri ) , ultra-conservatrice nei fatti , nei comportamenti .
vorrei sapere che pensano di queste note del ft alcuni colleghi e amici che stimo molto e che si sono schierati pubblicamente , a cavallo di natale , contro la web tax .
faccio due nomi , tra i tanti possibili : massimo russo , direttore di wired , e luca de biase , che coordina nòva del sole24ore , di cui ho letto , ascoltato e meditato le argomentazioni .
non sarebbe forse meglio tornare all 'imu , facendo finta che nulla sia accaduto ?
in termini di benessere collettivo sarà sicuramente meglio !
ma soprattutto , cari politici , smettetela di volerci far credere che i vostri personali capricci siano misure di politica economica di cui l 'italia in questo momento avrebbe bisogno , perché l 'incertezza che generate ha effetti negativi sull 'economia .
lo " storico accordo " più che una vittoria dell 'italico ingegno , appare come la parabola conclusiva di una lunga sconfitta , maturata in anni di declino economico-produttivo , di finanziarizzazione delle scelte di utilizzo dei capitali , di mancati investimenti in modelli strutturalmente innovativi e di assenza di politiche industriali pubbliche degne di questo nome , i più grandi truffatori sono anche i più grandi sognatori .
l ' abilità di chi truffa è una condizione di vulnerabilità e non di immunità : perché ad ogni grande truffatore può capitare di pensare ciò che viene enunciato in un altro bel film sulla truffa ( al poker ) , the rounders : se dopo i primi giri non hai ancora capito chi è il pollo , allora vuol dire che il pollo sei tu .
senza i numeri in parlamento , che non ci sono neanche con i grillini , la realtà è che chiedere " tutto " , in queste circostanze , equivale ad ottenere " niente " .
c 'è chi spera nella via giudiziaria , cioè che sia la consulta a fare quello che sinora non ha mai fatto ( e dei motivi pur ci saranno ) : estendendo il matrimonio alle persone dello stesso sesso .
verrebbe da chiedere : forse trent 'anni di attesa non sono già abbastanza ?
provocando - per arroganza ? per calcolo ? per superficialità ? - le dimissioni del viceministro fassina , il neosegretario ha infatti oscurato la sua prima segreteria del 2014 e appesantito l 'immagine fresca , vigorosa , ma non cattiva del nuovo corso post rottamazione .
ora dovrà faticare non poco per tornare alla leggerezza che conviene a chi deve provare a costruire .
direttore generale istituto di alti studi in geopolitica e scienze ausiliarie , condirettore della rivista geopolitica quando le truppe statunitensi e britanniche avanzarono in germania , si trovarono di fronte a soldati che sembravano solo desiderare d 'arrendersi loro .
i tedeschi si aspettavano dagli anglo-americani una pietà maggiore di quella che avrebbero ottenuto dai sovietici .
milioni di combattenti germanici furono così internati in campi di concentramento statunitensi , britannici e in seguito francesi .
chi ha abusato del proprio potere deve pagare ed è giusto che l 'inchiesta faccia il suo corso .
ma l 'eccessiva morbosità non deve screditare la figura della donna all 'interno dell 'esercito .
se la conquista della parità ha portato tante ragazze ad indossare la mimetica e a voler difendere il proprio paese , non deve essere un racconto pecoreccio a provocare facili giudizi e frasi ipocrite del tipo " le donne non sono fatte per quel tipo di vita lì " .
per questi dirigenti ci sarebbe voluto semplicemente un bel licenziamento .
fanno ricorso ?
primo bisogna vedere se hanno anche questo coraggio ( temiamo di sì ) , secondo quale sarebbe stato l 'esito del ricorso , terzo chissà quando la causa sarebbe arrivata in tribunale .
nel frattempo tutti a casa con una bella pedata .
invece a casa ci andranno con le tasche piene .
se l 'election day annuale per le elezioni politiche , amministrative , europee serve per razionalizzare e ridurre i costi della politica , l 'election day per le primarie , oltre ad avere questo obiettivo , permetterà ai democratici di avvicinare e " far parlare " i dirigenti di partito con il suo elettorato , di rendere il pd veramente " open " .
l 'esperienza parlamentare del m5s : turpiloquio e adesione a slogan di un 'azienda di comunicazione la casaleggio associati ha avuto un indubbio successo nel creare un 'inedita figura di quadro politico . la sua efficacia è dovuta al fatto che spesso ( parlo per esperienza personale ) non si rende nemmeno conto di essere parte di una organizzazione che lo trascende completamente .
alla libera espressione del pensiero si sostituisce così l 'adesione acritica agli slogan elaborati da una azienda della comunicazione .
moriva morto ammazzato il 5 gennaio 1984 giuseppe fava , fu il secondo intellettuale ucciso per mano della mafia dopo peppino impastato , che per ironia della sorte quello stesso giorno avrebbe compiuto trentasei anni se anche la sua corsa alla vita non fosse stata fermata da cosa nostra . esiste in ognuno di noi una coscienza che ci interroga ogni qual volta decidiamo da che parte stare , possiamo ascoltarla o renderci sordi .
si tratta della ( presunta ) felicità rilevata da un progetto dell 'università di milano , denominato " voices from the blogs " , che ha condotto un 'analisi sul sentiment espresso da oltre 41 milioni di tweet scritti nel corso del 2013 e ha definito un indice di felicità ( " ihappy " ) .
il risultato è che durante l 'anno appena trascorso , sarebbero stati felici su twitter 6 italiani su 10 ( 60,3 % ) , mentre nel 2012 l 'indice era invece fermo al 46 % .
il palco , davanti il potere russo , dimostra la sua impotenza .
iniziare a denigrare , tra il serio e lo scherzo , l 'est e le decisioni omofobe di putin comporta un 'implicita ammissione di colpa .
chi , in tutti questi anni , non ha voluto far evolvere con una critica eccellente la cultura italiana ( poco inclusiva ) investe , in media , su contenuti che costringono l 'italia a una comicità tale e quale .
provai un lieve senso di soddisfazione quando lessi che tra le truppe mandate in afghanistan il tasso di obesità era raddoppiato nel giro di pochi anni .
la nothomb ne ha fatto una storia , incentrata attorno al soldato melvin mapple : " è incredibile quanto riusciamo a ingurgitare , " ci racconta il protagonista di una forma di vita , " qualcosa si è rotto dentro di noi .
non è che ci piaccia mangiare così , ma è più forte di noi , potremmo ammazzarci di cibo , e forse è proprio quello che tentiamo di fare " .
in tempi recentissimi sembra si stia affermando una netta inversione di tendenza : in un sondaggio online , condotto recentemente in inghilterra su un campione di 1,870 donne , il 51 per cento di loro ha dichiarato di non depilarsi nelle zone intime , per la semplice ragione che " non hanno voglia di occuparsi della ricrescita " ( 45 per cento ) oppure perché il loro partner " preferisce un look naturale " ( 62 per cento ) .
mantenere un ambiente civile di conversazione e di scambio è sempre stata una prerogativa per noi dell 'huffington post . il 10 dicembre , dopo settimane passate ad affinare la nostra tecnologia per i commenti e la nostra piattaforma , apporteremo cambiamenti in modo da preservare gli aspetti migliori dei commenti sull 'huffington post e offrirti allo stesso tempo un 'esperienza più civile e responsabile .
la caserma a luci rosse di ascoli : nessuno dica che le donne non sono fatte per la vita militare gli altri lager : quando i tedeschi vennero internati nei campi di concentramento inglesi e statunitensi nel 2013 gli italiani sono stati più felici .
parola di twitter tutto e niente : le barricate che negano le unioni ed i diritti civili il ministro a rep : " nel 2014 meno tasse su imprese e famiglie " " bersani , ti aspettiamo , non fare scherzi " ansal 'abbraccio inaspettato di grillo all 'ex segretario merkel cade facendo sci di fondotwinam via bildi medici : " tre settimane di riposo " ( foto ) sharon sempre più grave ( foto ) ansai medici : " solo un miracolo può salvarlo " dirigenti goodyear sotto sequestrotwitterin francia gli operai bloccano due manager nello stabilimento di amiens il sito new york times cambia volto e rivoluziona le inserzioni pubblicitarie ( foto ) ansain arrivo il native advertising : contenuti promozionali " mimetizzati " janet yellen a capo della fedansaè la prima donna presidente in cento anni di storia " schumacher in condizioni critiche ma stabili " ansai medici : " per il momento basta aggiornamenti " ( foto , video ) il cuore di jahi batte ancora , ma i medici dichiarano la morte cerebralefacebooki genitori non si arrendono .
un nuovo caso terri schiavo scuote gli usa " la mia redvolution come la rivoluzione di renzi " la presserenzo rosso su matteo : " anche lui sta andando oltre gli schemi " " in tv voglio volti rassicuranti " .
nella lista nera del cav santanché , gasparri , mussolini ... ansatutti i nomi ( foto ) " ma quale black list , è colpa degli alfaniani " la pressecosì i fedelissimi di berlusconi bitcoin tornano sopra quota 1.000 dollariansautenti potranno usare bitpay per farmville m5s non parteciperàansagrillo non concede il simbolo , stasera scadono i termini anche il carroccio si scopre antiproibizionistathinkstockl 'assessore lombardo fava ad huffpost : " se ne discuta " e maroni ...
l 'ira chiese aiuto a mao zedong contro la gran bretagnaansale rivelazioni sul times regionali in sardegna , nel pd pigliaru candidatoagfsostituisce la barracciu costretta a lasciare il contropiano di letta per fermare renziansadopo il caso fassina ...
intervista " francesco ha acceso scintille .
qui la parrocchia è casa ... in senso letterale " ( di g. belardelli ) aereo fuoripista al jfk di new yorkansa35 passeggeri ma nessun ferito grave ( foto ) " mentre si lanciavano dimissioni come effetti speciali noi al lavoro " misteriosa pioggia di brandelli umani in arabia sauditareutersforse un migrante nascosto in un aereo " ho solo preso atto .
non mi rassegno a un pd padronale " ansaintervista a fassina ( di l. annunziata ) " pronto a votare la proposta renzi , anche se la mia era più avanzata " " le coppie gay pongono sfide educative inedite " ansale aperture di papa francesco tassa sulla casa , si cambia ancorathinkstockil sottosegretario baretta : " un ritocco per dare visibilità ai comuni " leggi gli articoli che potrebbero piacerti e guarda quello che condividono i tuoi amici .
non leggerlo se soffri di vertigini ... ( foto ) imgur " la scala per il paradiso " sul monte huashan in cina berlusconi regala 50mila euro a coppia di disoccupatitwitter " ai nostri figli diremo che babbo natale esiste " ( foto ) il senzatetto ritrova la sua famigliaapla foto era finita sul giornale ( foto ) è il mestiere più antico del mondojohn ernest joseph bellocqle foto di john ernest joseph bellocq ( foto ) 7 cose che non sapevi sulle mandorle ( foto ) amazingalmonds | flickr è l 'anno della tecnologia da indossareansasi apre il ces 2014 a las vegas , la fiera dell 'hi-tech una marea rossa ...
( foto ) redditl 'invasione di granchi sull 'isola del natale in australia cambiano i black cabnissannews.comil nuovo taxi di londra parla giapponese paolo virzì : " la nostra borghesia egoista e carente verso gli altri " ansail regista parla del suo ultimo film " il capitale umano " ( foto ) fashion a ritmo di rockpitti people pitti uomo 83 - 011la moda maschile della prossima stagione ( foto , video ) le frecce tricolori testimonial di fastweb ( video ) ansaper la prima volta l 'aviazione militare apre alla pubblicità " forza giaguaro , tifiamo per te " .
anche il giornale sta con pier luigihuffpost ( foto , video ) un po ' di sano relax da sola alle hawaii ... lapresseil regalo di obama per i 50 di michelle ( foto , video ) sembrano fotografie ma sono dipinti ... ( foto ) zaria forman / facebookgli iceberg per la lotta contro il cambiamento climatico michael schumacher , fiat-chrysler , unioni civiliemiliano carlila settimana di emiliano carli ( foto ) dalle olimpiadi al mondiale di calcio ...
( foto ) aptutti gli appuntamenti sportivi da non perdere nel 2014 " il signore degli anelli " vs " il trono di spade " : chi vince ? il signore degli anelliil confronto tra le opere di tolkien e martin ( foto , video ) eataly sfama il nuovo pdeatalypranzo al sacco durante la segreteria ( foto ) iniziate le olimpiadi del selfie 2014 ... facebookgli autoscatti più " estremi " degli utenti ( foto ) suona i coldplay con l 'ukulele ... youtubela cover di " fix you " ( video ) come sarà il 2014 secondo le stelle ? tipsimagesda paolo fox a rob brezsny , le previsioni per il nuovo anno ( foto ) non sono strumenti di tortura ... http : / / sobadsogood.com / i trattamenti di bellezza più strani del xix secolo ( foto ) due bambole nascoste nella penombra ... dan milanogli scherzi " terrificanti " di due fratelli ( foto ) 7 cose che gli americani dovrebbero imparare dagli italianishutterstock / kyrienverità o stereotipi ?
the ultimate guide for all those determined to put their new if you would like further information on how you could feature in most of the u.s. was blasted with frigid weather the weekend and now it 's moving east .
the huge temperature changes are associated with a “ polar vortex ” … what is it ?
how did it get here ?
when is it going away ?
a “ polar vortex ” is basically a large pool of ...
a whirlpool of frigid , dense air known as a " polar vortex " is descending into much of the u.s. , pummeling parts of the country with a dangerous cold that could break decades-old records .
for a big chunk of the midwest , the subzero temperatures are following ...
' polar vortex ' to blast frigid air over much of us las vegas — lg was showing off its curves at its ces press conference monday , promising new televisions and a smartphone with screens that curl in at the ends .
the company said that its flexible , curved smartphone , the lg g flex , will hit the u.s. market ...
at & t is bringing the bendable g flex smartphone to its lte network in the first quarter of the year .
the quirky handset can flex or heal itself and has buttons on the back .
lg g flex curved .
if you always wanted a curvy smartphone , you 'll soon have the ...
lg is “ throwing a curve ” at ces .
introducing the lg g flex , the world 's first curved and flexible smartphone to the us market .
the lg g flex will be available in the first quarter of 2014 on sprint , at & t and t-mobile .
on sprint , the lg g flex will join the growing ...
us carriers sign on for lg 's curved g flex smartphone one of the worst epithets that can be leveled at a politician these days is to call him a " redistributionist . "
yet 2013 marked one of the biggest redistributions in recent american history .
it was a redistribution upward , from average working people to the owners of america .
robert b. reich 's film " inequality for all " is now available on dvd and blu-ray , and on netflix in late february . watch the trailer below : garrison educators took a hit in the pocketbook to stand firm as contract negotiations lag on .
chico and oroville boy scouts help recycle christmas trees sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 08 pm est water news is about as bad as it gets ; butte and glenn counties brace sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 08 am est streaming yoga with grokker ceo lorna borenstein sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 08 am est burbank yogurt shop robbed at gunpoint sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 08 pm est jahi mcmath released to mother ’ s custody - hospital mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est effective psychotherapists reach peak demand in la mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est bicyclist fatally struck by car in riverside mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est body may be tied to woman ’ s slaying mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 08 am est coastal agency to rule on bolsa chica rezoning for housing project mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est jahi mcmath leaves children ’ s hospital oakland mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est san leandro : two handguns seized in separate arrests sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 08 pm est is development finally headed to sacramento railyard ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est it ’ s a fine day for philatley mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est boeing machinists ok contract tied to 777x sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 08 pm est another killer looking to get out of napa state hospital fri dec 6 , 2013 04 : 08 am est online dating sites see busiest day of the year mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est initiative looks to revitalize stockton ’ s wilson way sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 08 am est mathews , pagano and ’ whiz ’ deliver mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est sdsu ’ s skylar spencer was big for us mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 08 am est the chargers ’ defense won this game sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 08 pm est hardwick injured , another ol steps in sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 08 pm est health law leaves volunteer firefighting in limbo mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est number of homicides falls in many bay area cities mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est appeals court upholds s.f. plastic bag ban as precedent mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est ’ it ’ s a new beginning ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est brain-dead jahi mcmath released to her family mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est cold weather cancels flights at sfo mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est the life & luck of a bachelorista with monica bossinger mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est food for thought : the greenbelt alliance benefit savor the greenbelt mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est san francisco ceo of security company foresees added growth in 2014 mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est the nevada ski getaway mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est harlem globetrotters ticket giveaway mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est new year new tivo roamio !
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est jahi mcmath removed from childrens hospital oakland mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 08 am est ramadi clashes video mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est free beer for amsterdam ’ s alcoholics mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est stranded whales die mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 08 am est the yen in 2014 : japan inc . ’ s prayers answered ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est roadshow : expressway backups to be addressed in public meetings mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 08 am est san jose ’ s christmas in the park : dry winter , big crowds make great season sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 08 pm est san francisco : chinese consulate set on fire by arsonist thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 08 pm est petaluma man stabbed in denny ’ s parking lot sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 08 pm est runners aid runners sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 08 pm est man arrested in san francisco tourist ’ s 2010 killing sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 08 pm est © 2014 laurentian publishing irin | africa | east africa | tanzania but was the destruction wrought by the 6.3-magnitude earthquake on feb .
22 as bad as it looked in media reports ?
" the way out was blocked by all the bookcases that had fallen over and the broken debris .
the owner said not to worry about breaking anything , just get us out of the shop .
as sally says , i went into ‘ mel-dozer ’ mode and quickly cleared a trail , ” said mel moore , a man who would size up well on an nfl offensive line .
" as i was about to hit the send button , we have had another severe shock , ” chuck ’ s message concluded .
the next thing he heard was a voice in a german-sounding accent asking him if he was ok .
the man helped naughton to the middle of the street .
naughton was bleeding from the back of his head , and his knee was throbbing .
but he was alive .
" imagine standing on something like the ground , which we normally trust , and now it is doing everything it can to knock you down , ” naughton said .
" this one was over as soon as it started — thankfully .
i looked around , and noticed a tall building on every corner and decided it was time to walk to a safer place . ”
the sea ice in mcmurdo sound was finally breaking up to an extent not seen in more than a decade .
all it needed was a good push with a little bit of wind .
" all in all , i probably worked on 50 people , ” berry said .
" we ran out of bandages and splinting material , so a local cop and an intern raided one of the tourist shops and returned with boxes of tea towels and ‘ i love nz ’ pillows .
we used the pillows for soft splints on arms and legs , and made splints out of cardboard and cafe signs — all tied up with tea towels . ”
by the end of tuesday , the moores and the others they had met in victoria square would be joined by about 100 usap people at the cdc , which would become a temporary shelter through the end of the week .
that night everyone was fed and given sleeping bags .
it had taken him about an hour to walk to a medical center off bealey avenue , where one of the out-of-town urologists sewed up his arm while a nurse cleaned all his other scrapes and cuts .
the experience taught naughton that he has little desire to live in an earthquake-prone city , to say the least .
" during wednesday and thursday , our big adventure was going to cdc to get any news , ” said mel moore , mcmurdo supply operations supervisor .
" sally would use our five minutes of allocated computer time to updateher mom , who would in turn updatemy mom .
then we would go to the airport … and get some supplies .
we were just so excited when we were able to purchase a change of clothes so we could do laundry . ”
lynn dormand and her team back at rpsc reviewed nearly a thousand different travel itineraries as they scrambled to reroute people in new zealand , as well as those who would be coming off the ice in the next week or so .
they had re-ticketed more than 500 people at the time of this report .
" i cannot say enough about the raytheon staff [ in christchurch ] , ” said mel moore , as he summed up his story .
" the best way i can put it is that the christchurch we knew is gone , and we have no desire to repeat the experience . "
in the wake of luis prazeres ’ appointment as president of the nigeria & sao tome ( ... )
for the first time in long years the minister in charge of oil issues in sao tome ( ... )
the ilemela district commissioner , amina masenza who graced the event , commended compassion tanzania for the gesture .
the houses are situated at buhongwa , pansiasi , kiseke , kitangiri , kirumba and nyakato on the outskirts of mwanza city .
one of the beneficiaries , benjamini benedicto , thanked compassion tanzania for sheltering his family , saying : & ldquo ; with a new house and a home , i am now seeing light in my life . & rdquo ; copyright © the economist newspaper limited 2014 .
all rights reserved.the silsbee bee - obituaries on the bee vocations and priestly formation > consecrated life for womenmeet our newest entriesa proposal for dissolving the european court of justice | cadran politic the basis of homosexual laws , including the so-called anti-discrimination laws , is that a victim is punished and crime is labelled as a right .
these laws form the new principles of life , a new way of thinking and a state regime tantamount to hell .
the new generation brought up on these principles will be satanized and conscienceless .
it will destroy itself without war .
this is the aim of the architects of the so-called new world order – a holocaust of the planet . © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress and for the most part , they didn ’ t .
on cloud-drunk days , the house was the center of a black hole with the slivers of ambient light being vacuumed into the corners of the windows .
and on summer afternoons when the sun would stretch on a smile that beamed endlessly , we still needed a flashlight to navigate some of the rooms in the house .
but through the same nuance she used to veil her original disappointment in the little mousetraps we had for windows , she was trying to tell me that a glass house is not what she wanted .
no matter the amount of light that shines , you ’ ll no longer be private , you ’ ll no longer be yourself , and one day – maybe after you ’ ve been scrutinized , judged , and deemed a threat , and it ’ s cloudy and rainy and thunder is on the way – you ’ ll pray for blinds .
when temperatures drop and the wind picks up , it ’ s tempting to get chores done quickly and get back into the house and out of the cold .
but those frigid , blustery days are when it ’ s most important to take the time needed to check livestock for signs of hypothermia and dehydration .
you searched for " chike " did you mean choke ? your search returned no results letter : was the flooding of buccament an act of god or a recurring act of nature ? letters a legal representative for harlequin wrote that the flash flood at buccament bay resort and surrounding village was an act of god .
act of god is a legal term for events outside human control , such as sudden flood or other natural disasters , for which no one can be held responsible .
belizeans in the diaspora i feel like a pregnant mother having complications to deliver i beckon you to contribute towards the restoration of belize ’ s timbuktu the legacy garvey and haynes left for you it ’ s gone full circle and his philosophy has proven to be true ...
there ’ s a new face in the city offices — alyson buchholz , center ’ s new city director .
buchholz started march 11 dar es salaam is the most densely populated city in the country and according to the 2012 national population and housing census , the dar es salaam region has a total population of 4,364,541 which is 10 percent of the country ’ s population .
the study carried out by statisticians edward ntwale and elias samweli sought to show the effects of traffic congestion on the economy as a wake-up call to stakeholders to stop the huge economic losses .
as the name of his business suggests , matt ludwikowski is a bit brash . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 12 : 45 : 24 am ) the chaparrastique volcano in eastern el salvador belched a column of hot ash high into the air on sunday , frightening nearby residents and prompting authorities to order evacuations in the area . ( 12 / 30 / 2013 7 : 17 : 02 am ) asian impact .
our furniture is handmade by skilled craftsman and our do not charge you to find your business .
we even guide you to the best deal our own newspaper so you get the best value for money .
you are under no obligations january 6 , 2014 belizeans in the diaspora i feel like a pregnant mother having complications to deliver i beckon you to contribute towards the restoration of belize ’ s timbuktu the legacy garvey and haynes left for you it ’ s gone full circle and his philosophy has proven to be true ...
january 2 , 2014 i couldn ’ t agree more with the side bar in recent edition of que pasa -- puerto rico ’ s official tourist magazine -- describing punta ballena in guanica as one of the most beautiful places on the island .
why then is its care and grooming totally ignored ?
ignored by the drn ( department of recursas naturales ) ...
world + 8 others programme mondial pour l ’ agriculture et la sécurité alimentaire – bientôt plus de dix millions de bénéficiaires dans 25 pays washington , 11 septembre 2013 — les partenaires du programme mondial pour l ’ agriculture et la sécurité alimentaire ( gafsp ) , un fonds fiduciaire multidonateur établi en 2010 dans le but d ’ améliorer la sécurité alimentaire dans les pays les plus pauvres de la planète , ont annoncé aujourd ’ hui que huit pays — burkina faso , honduras , mali , nicaragua , ouganda , république kirghize , yémen et zambie — recevront des dons d ’ un montant de 254,5 millions de dollars pour financer des initiatives nationales visant à accroître la productivité agricole , améliorer la sécurité alimentaire et nutritionnelle , e from the home of the blues and the birthplace of rock and roll , it ’ s time for the best in blues on beale street caravan .
tune in saturday evenings at 10 pm ct .
stateline — in the west , gop governors skeptical of cap-and-trade , but will watch california that ’ s the beauty of state policy , herbert said , “ these are the laboratories of democracy .
( california ) can experiment and not jeopardize the rest of the country . ”
but herbert and his fellow republican governors at the meeting aren ’ t banking on the program ’ s success .
“ a lot of people are a little skeptical , ” herbert said .
“ they look at the european ( cap-and-trade system ) .
it doesn ’ t get the results promised . ”
“ i don ’ t know if any of us disagrees that there ’ s climate change , ” herbert said .
“ the question is , what is man ’ s impact on climate change ? ”
renewable energy advocates will be looking to michigan on tuesday ( november 6 ) , hoping its voters validate a bold experiment in growing the state ’ s renewable energy portfolio : if at first you ’ re stymied at the statehouse , just but it on the ballot — and in the constitution .
andrew dampf | january 6 , 2014 01 : 44 pm est | for the men 's super-combined , those rules mean miller , american world champion ted ligety and austrian standout benjamin raich could all miss out .
and the injured vonn — if she decides to compete in sochi — would be limited to just two events — downhill and super-g .
fis men 's world cup director gunter hujara is promising a last-minute change .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.drilling for value at national oilwell varco - barrons.com consultations are under way to find a successor to yandraduth googoolye as deputy governor of the bank of mauritius . ( ... )
three companies owned by the lagesse and dalais families are in the island ’ s top ten . ( ... )
the last stumbling blocks to the acquisition of 51 % of the equity of bni madagascar by the mauritian indian ocean financial holding have been all but lifted . ( ... )
if you are a fan of intriguing mysteries , harry potter , and a dash of house m.d. , this is the novel for you .
soumyajit ghosh to spearhead indian tt squad in lusofonia games fire in wishek mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 22 am est wresting teams affected by cold temps ?
sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 22 am est beware of deadly wind chills sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 22 pm est incentives proposed in mandan sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 22 am est man arrested in wilton house explosion fri jan 3 , 2014 7 : 22 pm est man accused of blowing up rental house in wilton fri jan 3 , 2014 5 : 22 pm est house explosion in wilton injures one thu jan 2 , 2014 7 : 22 pm est obit : ffalliott j. togstad mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est obit : jeanette mcphail mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est obit : maxine max allmaras mon nov 18 , 2013 1 : 22 pm est ap newsbreak : 100s of nd oil spills not publicized fri oct 25 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt ask your government : an app for train traffic ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 22 am est cold enough for ya ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 22 am est burglary reported at minot restaurant sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 22 am est hidden hydrants hampered firefighting sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 22 am est williston couple celebrates first baby of the new year fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 22 pm est globe-trotting lake county er doc at home for sochi olympics if it ’ s tuesday , it must be ua pou , ” said keith , stretched out on the adjacent mattress .
one of a half-dozen passengers still asleep on the upper deck of the aranui 3 , he pushed up on his elbows to watch the dawn skitter over the waves . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 3 : 35 : 39 am ) archbishop josephat lebulu of the arusha archdiocese of the catholic church consoles mary melkoni ( 40 ) at kisangani saint charles karoli lwanga parish hospital in arumeru district yesterday .
he also wondered why the police had kept silent on such a serious issue .
he called on the government to work on the matter urgently . & ldquo ; it is intriguing that these incidents are happening in arusha ?
it is the duty of the government to ensure that the suspects are arrested and charged in court . & rdquo ; efforts to get details from the tpdf spokesperson and the dar es salaam police special zone did not succeed as their mobile phones were not answered . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthe silsbee bee - terms of service ( tos ) the city of riverdale is short a pair of council members and an auditor following a heated debate over a rental matter .
the internet may finally be falling out of love with cats .
fur right meow , it is unclear whether millennials are already beating a dead cat horse , or if they 've jumped the cat shark just yet , but the end of the cat reign seems to be nigh .
although maligned for years , djs are still everywhere .
even though some millennial djs have had to sell their equipment to pay for rent or babies , there doesn 't seem to be an end in sight .
in a digital age when venues can just turn on a playlist , the " art of curation " could be done by a bartender with a crossfade app and a spotify subscription .
it 's rare that a dj actually has music production skills or puts on some sort of " performance , " or that the venue is intimate enough that they can actually " feel the temperature " of the room and choose songs accordingly .
for this reason , the vast majority of djs are dumb .
paris hilton is one of the top five djs in the world ( at least according to her ) , so there 's that too .
although a world where jay z and beyoncé are the head of the illuminati and blue ivy carter is the heir to the throne is a pretty appealing dream , millennials should just give it a rest with all the conspiracies .
if you stare at the eye above the tower long enough it isn 't going to wink at you .
i am not korean , i don ’ t live in regent park , nor does my family own a convenience store .
but the whole time i felt that apa , janet , umma and jung were telling my story – my family ’ s story .
when apa revealed his disappointment with janet ’ s career as a photographer , i remembered my own mother ’ s confusion four years ago : “ why not just science ?
why art and science ? ”
when umma explained how apa had sacrificed his whole life , his whole self , for his children , i thought of all the stories my father always shares so longingly about his home country .
when janet twisted her father ’ s arm to squeeze out of him the words “ i love you , ” i wanted nothing more than to immediately call my parents to remind them how much i care .
philippines in uk 's top 10 countries to see in 2014 philippines doe awards sc75 in the palawan basin to a philex-led jv продинфо - новости : цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси поискпродукцияпроизводителисырьеупаковкаоборудованиевсе группыалкогольбезалкогольная продукциядрожжизерно , крупазамороженная продукцияконсервированная продукциякрахмал , чипсы , картофелепродуктыкондитерские изделиямакаронные изделиямукамасложировая продукциямолочная продукциямясная продукцияовощи , фрукты , ягоды , травыптицеводческая продукцияпивопищевые концентраты и снекирыба и морепродуктысахарсок , нектарсольспирттабачные изделияуксусхлебобулочная продукциячай , кофе , какаокорма для животныхжиржелатинсода пищеваясухофрукты , цукатымеддетское питаниевсе регионыминскбрестская областьвитебская областьгомельская областьгродненская областьминская областьмогилевская областьлечебно-профилактическаяновинки производителей чуп & # 171 ; белтрансхолод & # 187 ; чтуп & # 171 ; ютэк-бел & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; полоцкий молочный комбинат & # 187 ; рупп & # 171 ; могилевхлебпром & # 187 ; ооо & # 171 ; гсм-пак & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; кленовичи & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; калинковичский мясокомбинат & # 187 ; нп ооо & # 171 ; синергия & # 187 ; главная » новости беларуси » цены на продукты питания в беларуси ...
цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % 12 августа 2010в беларуси за январь-июль 2010 г. цены на продукты питания увеличились на 6,1 % по сравнению с аналогичным периодом прошлого года .
об этом prodinfo.by сообщили в национальном статистическом комитете так , наиболее значительное повышение цен за этот период отмечалось на картофель ( на 35,2 % ) , сахар ( 29,5 % ) , овощи ( 19,8 % ) , коровье масло ( 15,1 % ) , чай ( 11,6 % ) , алкогольные напитки ( 10,3 % ) , кондитерские изделия ( 8,5 % ) , яйца ( 8,4 % ) , табачные изделия ( 6,1 % ) , молоко и молочные продукты ( 5,7 % ) , сыры ( 5,3 % ) , рыбные консервы ( 5,1 % ) , растительное масло ( 4,7 % ) , мясо и птицу ( 4,6 % ) , хлеб и хлебобулочные изделия ( 4 % ) , колбасные изделия и копчености ( 3,9 % ) .
менее значительное повышение цен было на фрукты ( 1,3 % ) , рыбу и морепродукты ( 0,5 % ) , крупы ( 0,1 % ) .
по данным белстата , в то же время за семь месяцев т.г. цены снизились на макаронные изделия все новости | 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 consensus is that the indoor ice skating rink should be rebuilt .
the question is – where ?
' there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a the official made the comments at a meeting in the burundian capital bujumbura in the presence of burundian vice-president gervais how to build back institutions that stand in the way of effective recovery , " she she said it is important to know whether set objectives burundi has a lot of potential to develop its economy , she " there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a sector ezekwesili is on a four-day visit in burundi , as part of a project in the capital bujumbura and the prasab agro-pastoral project in central melchior ndadaye came to an end in august 2005 , with the holding of historic he said all appointed officials have the competence in the all of them are not from the ruling party , " he said. that " lack of knowledge and capacity are an obstacle to burundi 's economy legislature should take out its swallow anger on payday lenders -google home-advertising programs-business solutions-privacy & terms-about googlethe silsbee bee – news on the bee missing soldier returns homefamily displaced in kountze fireandrea whitney , reportercouncil backs off on edc proposaldaniel elizondo , editoraggravated robbery suspect arrestedandrea whitney , reporter the independentsee realtime coveragepitbull and kesha take the first uk number one single of 2014the independent3 hours agowritten byjess denhampitbull and kesha take the first uk number one single of 2014 .
ellie goulding heads up the albums chart 65 weeks after halycon was released.pitbull and kesha hit number onebelfast telegraphpitbull and kesha top british music chartsabs cbn newssee all 45 sourcesrelated : pitbull the problem is that the article appeared on the marketwatch site two weeks earlier .
it was certainly a timelier read then. of “ river republic : the fall and rise of america ’ s rivers . ” disappointed in herbert ’ s decision .
“ in the coming days and weeks , we will questions to the state ’ s division of environmental protection , which did not answer “ this is where we ’ ll figure out who has the political will and connections to get this thing done . ”
on the charts , both markets seem to be at critical levels , where major reversals or major accelerations – up for bitcoin and down for gold – may be in the offing .
ide hill advanced to the semi-final of the sevenoaks charity cup by beating farnborough old boys guild 3-1.it was no surprise that after ...
lizzy yarnold says she went into the world cup season aiming to do the best she can – and it would appear her best is pretty damn ...
a bermudian man who has been officiating football games in canada for 27 years is officially retiring his post , prompting an ontario newspaper to report on “ losing an institution . ”
areas affected : crossett , ar | eudora , ar | fountain hill , ar | hamburg , ar | lake village , ar | montrose , ar | parkdale , ar | portland , ar | wilmot , ar < br / > be a mix of freezing rain and sleet before changing to all snow commentary : climate change : the present and future prospects in st vincent and the grenadines in 2013 , iran got a new president and maybe a new direction out with the old , in with the new .
for iran , 2013 saw the departure of an embattled president , and the arrival of a new one offering promises of economic revival , moderation , and an end to the country 's international isolation more wildlife : macquarie is home to a large variety of wildlife .
elephant and fur seals breed on the island as do royal , king , gentoo and rockhopper penguins .
the royal penguin is endemic to macquarie island .
other fauna of the island includes skuas , petrels and a number of different types of albatross .
there are no trees on the island although the island is covered by tussock grass and other plants .
weather blamed in deaths of experienced outdoorsmen snowmobiling on rangeley lake sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est wave of wearable gadgets expected at ces event sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est maine-binghamton box score mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 14 am est presque isle , john bapst hockey sum sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 14 pm est mdi , ellsworth boxscore sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 14 pm est umaine , yale womens boxscore sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 14 pm est plans in place for 3-state snowmobile weekend sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 14 pm est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 14 am est bc-bkc--binghamton-maine box , bkc sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 14 pm est seacoast endures frigid temperatures after winter storm fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 14 pm est kennebunk family grateful for ’ miracle ’ of surviving 35-car pile-up thu jan 2 , 2014 6 : 14 pm est capers top kennnebunk hoop teams thu jan 2 , 2014 02 : 14 am est training to aid mentally ill a priority for police mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 14 am est chargers ’ d ’ picks apart bengals mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 14 am est commenting period to end on clary lake dam plan mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 14 am est icy conditions to blanket most of the state sunday sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est health law leaves volunteer firefighting in limbo sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 14 pm est despite cold , mainers get out and enjoy winter sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est maine man shot and killed in pennsylvania sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 14 pm est addressing a political rally in the municipality recently , he said politics is now meant for the youth who can be at par with science and technology .
and thatâ € ™ s a good thing if youâ € ™ re interested in learning about whatâ € ™ s happening in the atmosphere above the continent at one of the harshest times of the year. â € œthatâ € ™ s the capability weâ € ™ ve never had before : fly at a reasonably constant altitude and constant density surface and remain aloft for weeks if not months , â €  said deshler , a professor in the university of wyomingâ € ™ s department of atmospheric sciences as the line of sight of the gps signal from any of the orbiting global positioning satellites passes deeper into the atmosphere , the signal path is refracted â € ” bent and delayed â € ” by the density changes in the atmosphere .
the refraction is measured by the doppler shift of the carrier frequency of the gps signal , providing information on the pressure , temperature and humidity structure of the atmosphere .
the french team investigated the vortex core mechanics to see how well it isolates the polar winter air .
it is this isolation that allows the air to cool to psc temperatures , and then for ozone to be destroyed by chlorine activated on pscs during the winter. â € œit was a pretty big instrument development activity , â €  avallone said. â € œthereâ € ™ s not enough power on the balloon gondola that we can operate continuously , â €  deshler said. â € œwe have to sample pretty deep into the cloud to see the formation of [ the nat ] particles.â €  following is a rundown of what each state plans to do with its aca grant : newton was brought home by broussard ’ s morturary in kountze and made a procession from bush intercontinental airport to lumberton before heading to kountze on tuesday morning .
a military review board declared the remains as unidentifiable in december 1955 and had the remains transferred to hawaii to be buried as unknown in the national memorial cemetery of the pacific , known as the & ldquo ; punchbowl . & rdquo ; jpmorgan chase nears a $ 2 billion deal in a case tied to madoffnew york timesjp morgan to pay more than $ 2 billion to us in penalties in madoff casewall street journalin depth : jp morgan chase to pay $ 2 bn in bernard madoff probe over biggest ponzi ... financial expresssee all 96 sourcesrelated jpmorgan chase unraveling the lies madoff toldwall street journalbernard madoff deputy recalls day madoff admitted scam had collapsedcbs localopinion : madoff wept as he revealed fraud , ny witness saysboston heraldsee all 172 sourcesrelated fraud jpmorgan blocked probe in madoff case : government officialreuterswhy the bernie madoff case is so dangerous for jpmorgan chase & co .
( jpm ) next iphone newssee realtime coveragesee all 45 sourcesrelated jpmorgan chase why the bernie madoff case is so dangerous for jpmorgan chasedailyfinancemadoff claims he helped u.s. snag jpmorganhere is the citysee all 5 sourcesrelated jpmorgan chase three men rob odenton cellphone store sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 15 pm est midwest storm disrupts travel out of bwi sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 15 pm est police say 6-year-old left alone in van at arundel mills fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est st. paul ’ s senior wrestler sets lofty goals on and off mat mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 15 am est at end of dream season , towson falls to north dakota state , 35-7 , in fcs final sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est conservatives chafe as van hollen embraces new territory in carroll mon nov 11 , 2013 6 : 15 pm est carrolltown mall redevelopment set to begin thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt new franchise terms set for harford county fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est harford man accused of killing infant niece awaits rulings on competency fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est ’ vapor ’ shops multiply as e-cigarette use grows sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 15 pm est exhibit highlights extraordinary nature of ’ ordinary women ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est 30 years on , gallo sees ’ functional cure ’ for hiv sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 15 pm est in mount vernon , dooby ’ s clicks around the clock sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 15 am est fire damages edgewood flooring business mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 15 am est $ 1 million powerball ticket sold in rockville sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 15 pm est montgomery ’ s forehand retiring from senate fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est co scare forces evacuation at walmart sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est 2-alarm fire displaces family in joppa sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 15 am est odenton cellphone store robbed at gunpoint sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 15 pm est police : woman fends off 2 would-be muggers sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 15 pm est woman hit by car in woodlawn dies sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est md. governor loses bet on fcs game to nd governor sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est art exhibit planned mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 15 am est police seek man who robbed 7-eleven on leitersburg pike sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est seminoles nickname not a problem at florida state sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est dsp investigating attempted robbery at a church sat jan 4 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est delmarva residents reacts to snowfall fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 15 pm est muskrat at midnight wed jan 1 , 2014 6 : 15 pm est pocomoke city to remove ’ open dump ’ tue dec 31 , 2013 4 : 15 pm est new year ’ s eve returns to salisbury tue dec 31 , 2013 10 : 15 am est o ’ malley loses bet on fcs game to nd governor sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 15 am est salvation army ’ s thrift store back in business in dorchester county sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 15 pm est man dies in fiery millsboro crash sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 15 pm est md. governor loses bet on fcs game to nd governor sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 15 pm est relations between sri lanka and the seychelles have been on an upswing over the ( ... )
the seychelles minister for tourism , alain st ange , is campaigning to be elected ( ... )
foreign lawyers to be allowed to practice in the seychelles ayabulela magqwaka has emerged as one of the most in-demand youngsters for psl clubs , with amatuks said to be close to signing the amajita defender who starred in lesotho ( 12 / 15 / 2013 7 : 49 : 00 am ) mashaba : cosafa cup glory will be perfect send-off for madiba speaking at a fundraising event organized by the mawella catholic parish at uru-mawella ward , moshi rural district , the former premier described characteristics of a good leader as one who is voted by the people , and not one who spreads cash all over the country for leadership .
mr sumaye served as premier for ten years but only made it to the ccm five aspirants shortlisting in 2005 , behind winner jakaya kikwete , dr salim ahmed salim , prof. mark mwandosya and ahead of dr abdallah kigoda .
he warned that the ruling party would lose the next election if it picks a corrupt candidate , in what appeared to be a swipe at mr lowassa , his successor at the premier ’ s post .
mr sumaye accused his successor of misleading the public that he was behind a water project in shinyanga .
mr sumaye was premier at the time , mr lowassa serving as minister for water and livestock development .
set up in august following the breakup of the london-based red kite group , and more focussed on hedging and trading operations , orion mine finance in new york is venturing into africa ( ... )
windhoek hasn ’ t yet found anybody to replace gazprom in developing kudu ’ s gas but has nonetheless launched studies on a power plant projet to be supplied by the field . ( ... )
already operating the la libertad and limon gold mines in nicaragua , b2gold is poised to begin building a new mine at otjikoto in namibia in coming weeks . ( ... )
world + 2 others deuxième commission : il faut renforcer la résilience des petits états insulaires , menacés parfois de disparition , déclarent les délégations lors d ’ une table ronde la commission économique et financière ( deuxième commission ) s ’ est réunie ce matin dans la cadre d ’ une table ronde organisée sur le thème : « renforcer la résilience des petits états insulaires en développement dans le contexte du développement durable » .
“ for us , it is a critical issue for the survival of our people ” , makurita baaro said during a panel discussion on “ strengthening the resilience of small island developing states within the context of sustainable development ” .
share information through reliefweb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.editorial | cadran politic totul era atât de minunat .
sondaje peste sondaje în care crin antonescu scade .
o mână de ajutor din partea acestuia care fie nu înțelege ce i se întâmplă , fie înțelege dar nu-i pasă și s-a resemnat că va trebui să se mulțumească doar cu amintirea interimatului din timpul „ loviturii de stat ” .
rar a fost văzut o prestație atât de lamentabilă a unui candidat la președinție , ...
forumul desfășurat în românia , la care delegația chineză a stat a la long , fără a se uita la ceas reprezintă indubitabil un mare succes politic .
românia s-a ales cu promisiunea atragerii a jumătate din fondurile alocate de china întregii regiuni .
provocarea este ca el să nu se transforme într-o mare dezamăgire economică .
protestele împotriva folosirii cianurilor pentru exploatarea aurului la roșia montana continuă .
și pe măsură ce ele continuă , devin din ce în ce mai bine organizate și cu un impact politic greu de evaluat în momentul de față . după douăzeci de ani , piața universității subminează din nou partidul lui ion iliescu .
criza din siria nu mai este de mult o contestare politică a puterii şi nici un conflict limitat în cadrul frontierelor ţării .
a devenit un război civil crunt şi chiar unul internaţional .
este o confruntare sângeroasă în care au murit mii , chiar zeci de mii de oameni .
sute de mii s-au refugiat în alte ţări .
după patru ani succesivi de criză financiară , economică şi mai recent politică ( neo ) liberalismul îşi arată toate hibele .
din 1990 , o dată cu căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est asistăm la un asalt continuu al liberalismului şi în ultimii ani ai neoliberalismului .
ni se spune mereu de către politicienii liberali de pretutindeni că statul este „ un administrator prost ” ...
anul 2012 a debutat în românia cu ample proteste împotriva clasei politice şi cu speranţa că societatea civilă din ţara noastră ar putea reveni ca o alternativă în construcţia şi elaborarea de politici publice şi de supraveghere activă a vieţii democratice .
celebra trupă rem , cea care a lansat melodia cu titlul de mai sus nu se mai simte nici ea foarte bine , căci tocmai s-a destrămat , parcă , tocmai ca să întărească şi mai mult pesimismul ce se abate peste lume în ultimele luni .
criza economică , socială şi politică care a început de câtva vreme pare a cuprinde întreaga lume , fără excepţie .
în lipsă de variante , pd a ales să meargă încă o dată pe mâna lui traian băsescu , dovedind că rămâne un partid mic , incapabil să evolueze în absenţa unui tătuc .
a spune că la congres a câştigat emil boc este o glumă condescendentă .
emil boc nu poate să mai câştige nimic .
are o cotă de încredere minusculă , subminată de deciziile impopulare , bâlbâielile administrative , nepotism ...
revoltele populaţiei din statele arabe împotriva propriilor regimuri sunt relatate zilnic în mass-media încă de la debutul lor în decembrie 2010 .
cel mai adesea auzim vorbindu-se despre „ opoziţia pro-democraţie ” care demonstrează în stradă împotriva lide ­ rilor autoritarişti şi a guvernelor pe care le conduc .
este demo ­ craţia compatibilă cu mentalul colectiv arab ?
demo ­ craţia ...
traian băsescu scade în sondaje , dar nu din cauza crizei .
toată lumea ştie că , dintre toţi candidaţii potenţiali la alegerile prezidenţiale , marinarul este cel mai pregătit să găsească şi să aplice soluţii .
faţă de mircea geoană sau crin antonescu , al căror discurs este încă abstract , distant , „ american ” , ca o bicicletă pedalând în gol , traian băsescu prinde concretul ...
mr askarov really was in bazar korgon at the time and even tried to document the events , seeing it as his duty as a defender of human rights .
the investigation of his case was marred by violations .
mr askarov was tortured and humiliated , and according lawyers and international observers , there was no material evidence of the defendant ’ s guilt presented at the trial . - in search of justice .
told by azimjon askarov ( video ) , fatal migrant vessel capsize in turks and caicos prompts calls for inquiry new date for extradition of former turks and caicos premier war of words escalates over turks and caicos attorney general as we do our strategic planning i would like us all to keep four important things in mind : the availability of priests and deacons to minister to the needs of our local church and its parishes .
the infrastructure and financial health of our parishes -- how are we doing , how and where are we spending our resources .
how can we insure that our clergy are healthy and able to minister to our needs ?
are we stretching them too thin ?
how can we help them better serve us ?
the gloriously mediocre , the fantastically middle-of-the-road , the tie in a world of wins and losses ...
the things we are impressively ambivalent about deserve to be listified too .
too chipped to look good , but too good to be replaced .
i appreciate the antibacterial properties , but you couldn 't throw in some cucumber melon or something ?
every time you see a bed skirt , you know it 's shielding a messy under-bed , so it 's sort of a lose / lose .
but at the end of the day , it 's better than a messy under-bed .
sort of .
i 'm so bored i have nothing to say here .
but i am hungry , so ...
we all know iceberg is only in salad for volume , but we 'd miss it if it weren 't there .
would it have been so hard to make the zipper go all the way down ?
this list is brought to you by the team at huffpost partner studio .
check out some of the sweet content we 've created in partnership with the world 's top brands , or find us on twitter , facebook , tumblr and instagram so you don 't miss a thing .
attacks on chadians in c.africa will not go ' unpunished ' : president the first two suspects were discovered during a search of the khao fah laep and khao saming hills in lop buri 's chai badan district by police from lop buri and samut prakan 's ratcha thewa police station .
mr somkhuan was arrested at his house in samut sakhon 's krathum baen district .
police seized 360,000 baht from mr sirisak and about 1.1 million baht from mr supatcha . another 1.1 million baht was found hidden in a jar at the house of mr sirisak 's wife in chai badan district .
another team of police seized 500,000 baht from mr somkhuan 's house .
the suspect threw a bag containing another 60,000 baht into a bush near his house , according to police .
the suspects have been charged with colluding to rob the bank .
trust noone at the airport and watch for touts and those offering taxis inside the airport .
as of june 2008 there are now more touts loitering around the entrance doors and inside.the airport authoritiews turn a blind eye to it all .
more [ airport scams & thefts ] [ airport scam news ] [ airline news ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] [ cheap thailand rais kikwete aongoza utoaji wa heshima za mwisho kwa aliyekuwa waziri wa fedha dkt .
mgimwa there is an alternative version , saying that an unrighteous trial over the russian pilots has been an act of vengeance for conviction of rustam khukumov over a drug possession charges ( the man is a son to the director of tajikistan ’ s railroad amonullo khukumov who , in his turn , happens to be the father in law for the president ’ s daughter .
when it comes to the center-stanton high school choir and band students , there are few things as treasured as a chance to go to europe as a northern ambassador of music .
the life and career of former cream drummer ginger baker is the subject of a new documentary to be screened in broadstairs stars set to descend on dockyard for new frankenstein film parish information ( select the first letter of the city in which the parish is located . ) abcdefghiklmnoprstvw o naţiune civică | cadran politic mişcarea pentru o naţiune civică susţine revendicările legitime ale populatiei romaniei legate de oprirea derapajului democratic din ţara noastră .
mnc apreciază civismul mişcarilor populare şi condamnă orice formă de violenţă , directă sau simbolică , căci scopul democraţiei este obţinerea şi menţinerea păcii sociale .
shinyanga regional chairman for the ruling ccm , hamis mgeja has called on the government to take action against all high-ranking officials who are alleged to be behind drug trafficking and senseless killings of innocent jumbos and rhinos .
mgeja who was in arusha for new year vacation also suggested the need for the government to put in place better procedures on how to welcome foreign investors . © 2014 laurentian publishing “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko | cadran politic home english “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko we have a project that proved to be functional .
it is already working .
we do not depend on anyone to put it into practice .
and how it looms this elite of the informational era ?
if you ask a psychologist or a teacher , or even a politician “ what is elite ? ” , no one would be able to give an answer … what kind of students are preferring you ?
it ’ s easier if there is a certain educational or spiritual background ?
how will be geopolitics of the xxi century , mr. ignatenko ?
how many such politicians know you ?
because , honestly , i don 't know too many which to give signs of “ spiritual awakening ” … you mentioned ( in a previous interview ) about a conservation program of romania 's geno-found .
it ’ s an indirect way of warning that our nation is in danger ?
« previous “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressforeign companies investing less in the u.s. - barrons.com but it is still hotly debated .
the new york court of appeals , the state ’ s top court , ruled recently that the state ’ s 2008 law requiring all online retailers to collect a sales tax stands . & # 8220 ; eu , socrate , am învăţat această incantaţie ( descântec ) , acolo , în oaste , de la un medic trac , unul dintre ucenicii lui zamolxis , despre care se zice că îi face pe oameni nemuritori .
spunea tracul acela că zamolxis , care este şi un zeu , ne învăţa că după cum nu trebuie să încercăm a trata ochii , fără să ţinem seama de cap , nici capul nu poate fi tratat , neţinându-se seama ...
17 mai a fost ziua mondială de luptă împotriva hipertensiunii arteriale .
pentru anul 2012 activităţile de celebrare s-au desfăşurat sub sloganul „ un stil de viaţă sănătos – o tensiune arterială normală ” .
scopul campaniei a fost de a informa populaţia cu privire la beneficiile unui stil de viaţă sănătos , pentru menţinerea tensiunii arteriale la valori normale .
elita mondiala a medicinei dentare s-a reunit la bucuresti & # 8211 ; bass 2011 grand hotel rin din bucurești a găzduit în perioada 28 aprilie-1 mai 2011 cel mai amplu eveniment științific al medicinei dentare din românia , cea de-a 16-ediție a congresului societății balkanice de stomatologie . , manifestare patronată de către președintele elect al congresului , prof. univ .
dr. norina consuela forna .
agenda manifestării a cuprins un program știintific variat , reunind ...
operaţiile estetice sunt la mare căutare şi în rândul bărbaţilor în zilele noastre , se pare că intervenţiile chirurgicale este ­ ti ­ ce nu sunt utilizate doar de către femei .
un nou raport statistic in ­ di ­ că faptul că mai mulţi bărbaţi de vârstă mijlocie apelează la procedurile estetice decât altădată .
conform noilor date de la societatea americană de chirurgie plastică ( asp ) , numărul de băr ­ baţi care optează pentru facelift , liposucţie şi ...
specialiştii în controlul infecţiilor se străduiesc să găsească o soluţie pentru gripa porcină care a lovit mexicul , statele unite şi alte zone ale globului .
comunitatea internaţională este mai pregătită ca oricând pentru a face faţă ameninţării ca virusul să se răspândească , asigură unul dintre experţii onu pe probleme de sănătate , citat de bbc .
în primele luni ale primăverii acestui an , majoritatea spitalelor au fost depăşite de avalanşa pacienţilor cu viroze .
în luna martie , numărul internărilor a depăşit 70.000 pe săptămână .
din păcate , s-au înregistrat şi câteva decese în rândul copiilor .
spitalele sunt pline de bolnavi care suferă de viroze , afec ­ ţiune cu debut acut , incu ­ ba ­ ţie scurtă şi care pare a nu fi ...
cancerul cervical este o boală în care celulele normale se transformă în celule maligne ( canceroase ) în ţesutul cervical .
cervixul este porţiunea cea mai joasă şi mai îngustă a uterului ( organul cavitar , sub formă de pară în care creşte fătul ) .
cervixul face legătura între uter şi vagin .
infecţia cu hpv reprezintă cel mai important factor de risc pentru cancerul cervical , fiind ...
diagnosticarea incorectă sau prea târzie a cancerelor afectează milioane de femei cancerul de col uterin , ovarian sau de sân sunt de multe ori diagnosticate greşit sau prea târziu , ceea ce duce la moartea a 70 % dintre femeile care suferă de una dintre aceste boli , potrivit emisarului pe probleme de sănătate al depar ­ tamentului de stat al sua , cunoscuta actriţă fran drescher .
“ cancerul de col uterin şi cel ovarian sunt deseori diagnosticate greşit – cancerul de ...
alimentaţia sănătoasă , mişcarea şi renunţarea la fumat sunt , potrivit medicilor , principalele mijloace de prevenire a diabetului zaharat – maladie cu o mortalitate de aproape 80 la sută şi pentru care , în prezent , un român din trei prezintă risc ridicat de îmbolnăvire .
“ în general , în întreaga lume a crescut riscul de diabet zaharat .
se pare că pro ­ gre ­ sul omenirii se întoarce ...
relatări nedocumentate ale personalului medical din africa şi asia de sud-est scot la lumină un nou curent îngrijorător : medicamente folosite cu succes de ani de zile împotriva malariei , a tuberculozei şi a hiv încep să nu mai dea rezultate .
diagnosticarea eronată a bolii împreună cu folosirea neadecvată sau excesivă a medicamentelor joacă un rol important , mai ales în ţări unde ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressreview : they said what ? - barrons.com the tra director for taxpayer services and education , richard kayombo the tra director for taxpayer services and education , richard kayombo said yesterday in dar es salaam that the move is intended to make the devices affordable , by checking on possible monopoly pricing. ippmedia.com © 1998-2014 .
all rights reserveddrilling for value at national oilwell varco - barrons.com now your favourite km group newspaper is available in an will place it on our photo sales website so that you can purchase a published 44 mins ago brian cookson has been a busy man since his election as uci president , and he 's likely to be busier still .
photo : franck fife | afpmadrid ( vn ) — brian cookson might want to consider a job in a circus when he & # 8230 ; the south african firm sunbird has penned a memorandum of understanding with eskom to use gas from the ibhubesi field .
but marketing it lies far in the future . ( ... )
companies like shell that are champing at the bit for shale gas licenses are going to have to wait for several months . ( ... )
it all got off to a good start for the dozen or so heads of companies accompanying french president françois hollande on his state visit to south africa on 14 and 15 october . ( ... )
petmin has no end of ambitions for a “ junior . ”
the company ( listed on london ’ s aim and the johannesburg stock exchange ) , which began turning out anthracite at somkhele in kwazulu natal ( ... )
goldplat plc has fleshed out its executive team with the appointment of nigel patrick ( ... )
hollande expected to talk about epr reactors in south africanoua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ? | cadran politic home politică externă noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
sfârsitul de saptamâna care a trecut a marcat un nou & # 8220 ; început & # 8221 ; pentru aparatul politic de conducere al chinei .
sâmbata , 15 martie jiang zemin , 76 , s-a retras în umbra politica pentru a face loc lui hu jintao , 60 , deja sef al partidului comunist chinez si mostenitor declarat al decedatului deng xiaoping ca presedinte al republicii jiang zemin a fost reales de catre delegatii congresului national al poporului ca sef al comisiei guvernamentale în sarcina careia se afla conducerea armatei de 2,5 milioane de soldati a chinei .
jiang conduce si o comisie similara din cadrul partidului si nu a dat semne ca ar intentiona sa renunte la nici una dintre aceste functii .
dealtfel , asteptarile larg exprimate înclina catre o mentinere a unei largi influente din partea acestuia în politica statului , a carui guvern va trebui sa faca fata implicarii din ce în ce mai profunde a chinei în afacerile internationale , precum si cresterii instabilitatii ca urmare a reformelor economice , pe plan intern .
zhu ronji , prim-ministru si principal factor de raspundere în politica economica a predat portofoliul lui wen jiabao , lasând în urma reputatia unui reformator iritabil , recunoscut pentru adresarea directa , sensul umorului si maiestria în administrarea sarcinilor economice , care a jucat un rol determinant în recuperarea economiei chineze dupa criza asiatica .
numirea noului cabinet chinez , care a urmat instalarii lui hu , constituie un crescendo în primul transfer ordonat de putere din cei 54 de ani de comunism în china .
noului cabinet îi revine sarcina de a continua politica de liberalizare economica a chinei , dar si de a mentine un control politic strâns al partidului comunist .
o prezentare succinta a figurilor proeminente ale actualei puteri chineze îl are în frunte pe hu jintao , presedinte , ales cu o covârsitoare majoritate de 2937 voturi pentru si 4 împotriva , wen jiabao , prim ministru si numarul unu ca responsabilitate în administrarea economiei , ales de asemenea cu 2906 voturi pentru , 3 împotriva si 16 abtineri .
enumerarea continua cu li zhaoxing , fostul ambasador al chinei în statele unite si ambasador al chinei la onu ca ministru de externe , cao gangchuan general militar implicat în programul spatial al chinei ca ministru al apararii , jin renquing ca ministru de finante si zhou yongkang ca ministru al securitatii publice .
zeng qinghong , cel mai apropiat colaborator al lui jiang a fost numit vicepresedinte .
el ar putea constitui un rival al lui hu , având reputatia ca fiind cel mai bine conectat tânar lider al partidului si un expert al jocurilor politice .
putine schimbari reale sunt asteptate de la noua conducere chineza .
reforma politica a constituit un subiect tabu de la evenimentele petrecute în piata tiananmen în 1989 , dar noua generatie care vine la putere este fara îndoiala mult mai expusa curentelor de opinie internationale decât predecesorii sai .
de aceea se asteapta din partea acestora mai multa toleranta la critica si o presa mai libera , în special daca aceasta este vazuta ca ajutând la eradicarea coruptiei înfloritoare ce afecteaza imaginea partidului .
în chestiunea taiwan-ului , considerat în continuare ca o provincie renegata a chinei , nu se asteapta o pozitie schimbata din partea noii conduceri .
analistii estimeaza ca aceasta va fi la fel de suspicioasa în privinta presedintelui taiwanului , chen shui-bian si chiar mai precauta în asumarea unor riscuri care ar putea duce la pierderea initiativei diplomatice .
pe plan intern , provocarea majora o constituie preluarea conducerii unei societati de 1,3 miliarde de oameni , aflata într-o stare crescânda de nemultumire datorata luptei continue cu somajul , saracia rurala si celorlalte constrângeri atrase de reforma economica si competitia indusa prin aderarea la organizatia mondiala a comertului .
datorita necesitatii mentinerii stabilitatii pe plan intern , dar si climatului international în care se situeaza china la moment , opinia expertilor internationali înclina spre a pronostica probabilitatea unor schimbari majore în politica dusa de noul guvern ca fiind foarte redusa . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress they are — and i mean this in the most complimentary way possible — a symptom of the disease afflicting the entire nba .
competitive sports are supposed to be , you know ... competitive . & # 8230 ; townnewstownsportstownbusinesstownartstownlifefood & dininghome & gardenkids & familieshealth & wellnessfashion & styletownguidestowncalendars remarkable comeback seasono ’ connor can ’ t hold leadblues start strong , but fizzle a certain type of readerbunnies have life after playboysongbird is having the time of her life remarkable comeback seasonbittersweet end to seasonhawks off to a hot start in co-ed volleyball today & # 039 ; s streeter : need a new council ? renovations to spadina rental units comingst .
mike ’ s grad to head school pat smith trades in cleats for clown shoesa certain type of readeramy sky awakens to joyful messaging no grey cup ring yet , but hinds ‘ absolutely blessed ’ norsemen are back to defend city titlelocal girls dominate ofsaa cross country a certain type of readerhorror in midtown unveiledpianist hits all the right notes the jews of yementhe untold story of almost a million ... playing with passioncan the cbc be salvaged ? idling on a warm island.michelle obama opted to fly home cares , but he confronts a chilly public this month , matching the frigid regulations and hinges on being considerate for the unemployed .
from his " instead of punishing these families who can least afford it & # 8212 ; doesn & # 8217 ; t just set us back in the race for cutting-edge cures and research at the national institutes of health .
we do this using taxpayer advancements .
not only for childhood cancer , but for all pediatric now it 's the senate 's turn to step up so we can send this bill to the happy new year .
this is a time when we look ahead to all the place where we can make a real and powerful difference in the lives of the holidays and let that lifeline expire .
and for many of their promise to one another because it makes a difference to a mother who who needs help paying the rent while learning the skills to get a new is at stake politically across the country in the second midterm other things can go wrong .
but barring a major macfunkerlee by d.c. must bear her outspoken obamacare support and pay the thankless price so kept by year 's end .
based on his record and the obamacare lies , you gop on our military : ' these are the heroes who keep our nation free ' the email tease was straight-faced praise for obamacare as the kind of " fundamental change " america so desperately needs , in obama 's beady eyes .
in fact , obama 's job approval at this stage is the worst of any president since richard " i am not a crook " nixon , who ended up resigning .
( but nixon didn 't have a vp named joe biden as impeachment insurance . )
yup , you go straight to a donation page , where the price of a minimum we & # 8217 ; re not going to take much of your time .
but we did want to take a president : this is a season for millions of americans to be together stories of the season . & # 8221 ; and in every room of the house , we tried to tell a story about who we are as americans and how we celebrate the are serving so that the rest of us can enjoy the blessings we cherish delightful events and sharing gifts .
as we reach for one of those gifts under the tree and untie a bow , i encourage all of us to is the time of year to look at all the good things and all the blessings years by our men and women serving in uniform in the united states military .
they serve in our homeland and in faraway places across the the freest and most prosperous nation in the world & # 8212 ; the united states of and dreams in this country .
we are a grateful nation.and with all do not have significant means ; those who live on shoestring budgets or their tables .
may we each consider how personally we can are indeed , the most generous in the world.i wish each of you a all the best for a wonderful new year .
may god continue to bless you , dozens of times before and even if americans ' eyes now glaze at the claimed ignorance of so many of his responsibilities and underlings ' failures and violated protocols , not to mention the constitution .
the media has turned on him over his administration & # 8217 ; s faux transparency .
but in fairness to its members , the millionaire obama has been involved in so many scandals , gaffes and failings in the nearly five years that his unelected mother-in-law has lived in the white house at taxpayer expense , that no one covering him can keep up with them all as dodge , as he did the one about his now infamous lie of the year .
feel free to add your own unasked questions in the comments below. able to find the alleged ringleaders and interview them , can you explain and this health care law is a bad product for young people .
201220142016afghanistanafricaandrew malcolmann romneybill clintonbooksbudgetcaliforniacanadachicagochinacongressc-spand.c.debatesdebtdebtsdefensedeficitdemocratic partydnceconomyeducationegyptelectoral mapelectoral mapenergyenvironmentfloridafundraisinggaffegaffesgeorge w. bushgermanygovernorsgunshealthcareherman cainhillary clintonhispanicshollywoodhouse of representativesillegal immigrationimmigrationiowairaniraqisraeljobsjoe bidenjoe biden updatejohn boehnerjohn kerryjokesjon huntsmanlibyamediamexicomichelle obamamichiganmitt romneynasanational debtnational defensenational securitynevadanew hampshirenews conferencenewt gingrichnflnorth carolinanorth koreaobamaobama job approvalobama jobs billobamacareohiopaul ryanpollsramadanreligionrepublican partyrick perryrick santorumright track-wrong trackron paulrussiasarah palinscandalssenatesouth carolinaspendingsportssunday showssupreme courtsyriataxesterrorismtexastextunemploymentunionsvideowashingtonweekly remarkswhateverwhite housewisconsin tri global energy took a gamble on the wind and it paid off sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 27 pm est harris county hospital chief said to be seeking parkland ceo job fri jan 3 , 2014 6 : 27 pm est talks don ’ t lead to deal in macy ’ s , penney lawsuit fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 27 pm est swimmers take an icy plunge for charity mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 27 am est suspect in fort worth standoff in custody sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 29 pm est flu fears sweep the region sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est dfw braces for bitter cold mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 27 am est booming austin sees costs of living skyrocket sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 27 pm est man arrested for pulling gun over parking spot at northpark sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est watauga officer fatally shoots man who was attacking two women sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est unt health science center , uta get new presidents in 2013 sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est domestic dispute leads to standoff sun dec 29 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est barricaded man surrenders to arlington police sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 27 am est booming austin sees costs of living skyrocket sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est shoppers stockpiling old-fashioned incandescent bulbs wed jan 1 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est in & # 8220 ; provider , & # 8221 ; choose & # 8220 ; over-the-air lineup & # 8221 ; if you use an antenna , it had all the makings of a routine accident call .
to someone who has never injected illicit drugs , all syringes may look similar , but recent research out of the us shows differences in design can be “ dramatic ” and may slow the spread of hiv infections .
my daughter will not see news coverage of the shooting at sandy hook elementary school in newtown , conn .
she will not hear it on the radio , see it on the internet , or catch any conversation about it in our home .
the television has been off since friday morning , ...
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) national youth wing- bavicha - has urged the government to evolve a strong strategic plan for a girl-child education in the country . & ldquo ; the number of pupils left out of the system is big enough to jeopardize the education system in the country & hellip ; , & rdquo ; he said .
december 5the end of the beginning of mending muni finances beulah -- the state ’ s republican senator said he wants to keep coal ash regulation out of the federal government ’ s hands .
plans complete for annual mlk convocation held at gsw scheduled for jan .
22 sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 10 pm est local man arrested in shooting of stray dog sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 10 pm est school and business closings and cancellations sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 10 pm est delta flight skids off runway in new york sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 10 am est new scam targets bar and restaurant owners sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 10 pm est dnr agent helps wounded warrior and son sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 10 am est local medical experts report on flu in bartow sat jan 4 , 2014 09 : 10 am est tim chitwood : do not go downtown to get a car tag sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 10 pm est dooly commissioners reorganize sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 10 am est two arrested for drugs in wilcox county sat dec 28 , 2013 9 : 10 pm est economy is surging in several sectors sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est fire guts apartment on ingleside mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est fired macon cop seeks his job , back pay mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est trio sought in armed robbery of budgetel inn mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est bibb deputy fatally shoots dog mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est where in macon-bibb county do you see blight ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est free tax preparation effort set to kick off sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est woman comes home to mess on new year ’ s day sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est ag group honors moultrie native jim faircloth sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 10 pm est colquitt regional celebrates new year ’ s baby sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 10 am est pooler officials to vote on contamination clean up mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est dozens hit the pavement in honor of emma blu mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 10 am est sagging trees get ’ chipper ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 10 am est a hunt that ’ s for the birds sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 10 am est no foul play expected in death of tifton woman sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 10 pm est blacksmith forges a new life mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 10 am est resolve to get fit in 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 10 am est flu death in lowndes sat jan 4 , 2014 07 : 10 am est tfda burns substandard foods , drugs and cosmetics in arusha na lusekelo philemon the official said : & ldquo ; this operation is ongoing , until we are in a position to say that all substandard foods , drugs and cosmetics are no longer in the market outlets in this part of tanzania . & rdquo ; wozniacki advances , jankovic goes down at sydney internationalsi.comkerber , wozniacki advance ; jankovic exits sydneykansas city starsee all 125 sourcesrelated caroline wozniacki the daughter of a financial advisor , emily bach once wanted to fall far from the tree .
" i thought i was going to go to law school , but my dad talked me out of it , " she says , laughing .
" we let the professionals do the money management , " she says .
" i do distinguish myself as a portfolio manager , not as a wealth manager , " says rosenau .
" people come to me to manage money for them . "
" you have to understand the reasons for the rally and work through the noise -- from the fed , from the pundits on cnbc , and so on , " she says .
" a healthy correction is inevitable , but i am optimistic for the longer-term growth of the equity markets . "
" it was suggested to me that i should try to start my own practice in the private bank , " she says .
" i didn 't have any clients " -- meaning no dedicated clients for whom she was the lead advisor -- " so that made me nervous . "
however , mntambo made it clear that the meeting had no power to oust the management but the annual general meeting .
however , the chairperson denied to give clarifications regarding embezzlement allegations and violation of tughe ’ s constitution .
when reached for comments , kiwengwa did not answer his phone . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reserveda change of regime | cadran politic there is a strong rejection of how tra ­ ian băsescu is doing politics .
emil boc ’ s replacement would have worked , if the new prime minister had been a radical change and if he had been a leader who knows what he must do and how .
not the case here .
traian băsescu himself made sure to set the length of the leash from the very beginning .
a number of unprovoked errors followed , and the mru project shrank before it had a chance to grow .
apparently traian băsescu still plans to rely on this project , although not even the democrats had welcomed it .
this has dispelled the myth of the president ’ s invincibility and of traian bă ­ sescu as the saviour .
no one is wai ­ ting for a solution from the president any longer .
it is the second băsescu government dismissed by parliament , which proves that democracy cannot be fooled forever , as much of a player as the president may be .
three years have passed since traian băsescu ignored a parliamentary majority and imposed two minority governments backed by the political migrants who have “ defected ” once again today .
beyond the price paid by romania , which is hard to quantify , the other price is quite clear : the president has become an irrelevant politician , and pd-l – on the verge of dismantling and disappearing as a party .
the democratic union of ethnic hun ­ garians in romania ( udmr ) made a huge mistake , not so much by betraying the johannis project , but by promoting a reverse apartheid , i.e. struggling for the isolation and encla ­ visation of the hungarian minority so as to be able to control it .
i said it back in 2007 : an ethnic party is a mistake and the hungarian problem ( and that of the other minorities ) must be taken over by the romanian parties .
the recent issue of the târgu mureş univer ­ sity is the best example of political stupidity , a manoeuvre that damages the hungarians as well as everyone else .
« previousun adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress search results - investors.com dkt .
shein azindua rasmi jengo jipya la kiwanda cha uchapaji zanzibar special olympians ready to get the ball rolling mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 09 am est nonprofit hopes to use kenton school to train disabled veterans in watchmaking mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 09 am est lawmakers plan job fair in dover on jan .
23 mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 09 am est rehoboth smoking ban to be discussed monday mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 09 am est man injured in wilmington shooting sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 09 pm est freezing rain coats roadways in ice sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 09 pm est for all foreigners buying houses in thailand and property .
ask us for free the best way to buy for your circumstances .
you will not be disappointed .
newsnews indexlocal newsbusinessnation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveobituariesobituaries indexplace an obituarysportssports indexprep sportsoutdoorsgolfdixe state universitysouthern utah universityopinionopinion indexblogsmultimediamultimedia indexvideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photoslifelife indexfeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopeseventsoutdoorsoutdoors indexhiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor gallerieshelphelp indexsubscribe today ! subscriber servicescontact usstaff listnews tipsarchivessite index news | obituaries | sports | opinion | multimedia | life | outdoors | help l & # 039 ; insécurité génère plus de 935 000 déplacés en république centrafricaine bangui , république centrafricaine , 3 janvier ( hcr ) – la violence continue et l 'insécurité en république centrafricaine ont généré plus de 935 000 déplacés et entrave les efforts d 'aide humanitaire .
« les attaques ciblées contre les civils , les pillages et la présence d 'éléments armés dans certains sites accueillant des déplacés limitent l 'accès des organisations humanitaires auprès des personnes ayant besoin d 'une assistance urgente » , a indiqué un porte-parole du hcr . • à la suite des récents combats qui ont éclaté le 5 décembre 2013 , plus de 370 000 personnes ont été nouvellement déplacées aux alentours de bangui , la capitale de la république centrafricaine ( rca ) et jusqu 'à 50 000 personnes près de bossangoa .
selon ocha , le nombre de déplacés internes dans le pays s ’ élève maintenant plus de 600 000 .
congo congo : l & # 039 ; opposition dénonce une " gouvernance à la mitraillette " brazzaville , 21 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - l 'union panafricaine pour la démocratie sociale ( upads ) , première formation de l 'opposition au congo , a dénoncé samedi " une gouvernance à la mitraillette " , après les combats de lundi entre la garde d 'un officier tombé en disgrâce et l 'armée congolaise venu l 'arrêter .
les opérations de rapatriement d ’ environ 100 000 congolais refugiés à impfondo , en république du congo qui ont débuté en septembre de l ’ année en cours pour buburu , un des villages de la province de l ’ equateur se déroulent sans trop de difficulté .
une fois à buburu , le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) construit des maisons d ’ habitations pour ces retournés .
ces rapatriés congolais avaient fui la guerre des enyele entre 2009 et 2010 .
congo brazzaville , ( congosite ) - le calme est revenu dans la capitale congolaise ce 17 décembre 2013 , après les changes de tirs à l ’ arme de guerre d ’ hier en mi-journée entre la force publique et les partisans de l ’ ancien secrétaire général adjoint du conseil national de sécurité , le colonel marcel tsourou qui s ’ est finalement rendu .
il est détenu à la direction générale de la surveillance du territoire ( dgst ) .
congo congo : les affrontements de lundi à brazzaville ont fait 22 morts brazzaville , 17 décembre 2013 ( afp ) - vingt-deux personnes ont été tuées dans les affrontements ayant opposé lundi à brazzaville l 'armée congolaise et la garde d 'un officier supérieur condamné par la justice , a-t-on appris mardi à l 'institut médico-légal .
" vingt-deux corps ( ... ) nous ont été ramenés du lieu des affrontements " , a indiqué à l 'afp un agent de la morgue municipale sous couvert d 'anonymat .
the security and humanitarian situation continues to be deteriorated in the country .
the number of are now an estimated 189,000 idps in bangui all new gathered in over 40 sites , with the highest central african republic + 2 others le hcr appelle à un accès humanitaire en république centrafricaine bangui , république centrafricaine , 13 décembre ( hcr ) – le hcr a déclaré vendredi que la situation humanitaire en république centrafricaine continue de se dégrader avec des dizaines de milliers de personnes qui ont été contraintes de fuir leurs maisons à cause des violences .
congo campagne de vaccination des enfants de 0 à 5 ans contre la rougeole congo brazzaville , ( congosite ) – une campagne de vaccination des enfants de 0 à 5 ans contre la rougeole sera lancée le 17 décembre prochain sur toute l ’ étendue du territoire congolais .
organisée par le programme elargi de vaccination ( pev ) , elle se déroulera jusqu ’ au 21 décembre .
selon le chef du pev , herman boris didi ngossaki , cette campagne est organisée en raison de la résurgence de la rougeole dans le pays .
plus de 900 cas décelés due à cette maladie ont été enregistrés cette année dans le pays , a-t-il indiqué .
congo quelque 279 cas de viols enregistrés en 2013 à l ’ hôpital de base de makélékélé congo brazzaville , ( congo-site.com ) - d ’ après les statistiques de l ’ unité de lutte contre les violences sexuelles de l ’ hôpital de base de makélékélé , 1er arrondissement de brazzaville , près de 279 cas de viols ont été enregistrés dans la période allant de janvier à septembre 2013 ; soit 1 cas par jour .
ces statistiques ont été révélées le 25 novembre dans la capitale congolaise par la ministre en charge de la promotion de la femme , catherine ebondza lipiti .
find out how the top stocks stacked up in 2013 and which leaders are lining up now .
check out this overview of key features and investing tools to get the most out of your subscription .
job-hopping is the new normal : one hurdle for managers is figuring out how to keep talented staff.more & # 187 ; how do you prepare a turkey and what are you thankful for when i was growing up in massachusetts , my dad loved to work on cars .
every time he headed out to the driveway , i was right there with him .
one weekend , when i was 10 or so , he told me we were off to fix a transmission .
" i can 't do that , " i said .
he replied without a pause , " people do it every day .
you can certainly do it once . "
that straightforward advice -- and the fact that we did fix the transmission -- stuck with me .
my year using aereo : how a dime-sized antenna met my tv needs nextlesson is a web app where teachers and parents can get access to pre-designed lesson plans or create their own .
it wasn 't created by a 20-year-old to jump on the next big trend .
it was created by a couple of dads using the ideas and techniques of high tech to solve a real problem in education .
we don 't need to sugarcoat the cure for climate change erase bad memories ?
scientists overseas show they can do it now you can savor the smell of popcorn through your phone better way to get buzzed ?
scientist says he 's found it the feds printed their own 3d gun and it literally blew up in their faces the involvement of the delamere family in the consortium that is planning to build a new shopping mall in naivasha has caused much gnashing of teeth . ( ... )
the former advisor to raila odinga when he was prime minister , miguna miguna , who ( ... )
september 30 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- the first gay pride event in curacao has been cancelled .
the curacao government had set additional conditions in the granting of the permit for the event on the island , which was supposed to be held in downtown punda , the old town of willemstad , on saturday .
curacao clean up picks up half million kilos of trash lu graeber , an rn-pa at garrison family clinic , is retiring the end of june .
the milestone , however , will not mean the end of her service as a health care worker .
it ’ s official – there ’ s going to be a new boat dealership relocating to garrison .
something big is coming to garrison – a new business called sakakawea rv заказать газель грузоперевозки почасовая . | dc limo service jump to content the cornhuskers chose to throw — and boy did they wing it .
the bulldogs had two really good chances to take the lead , but rantavious wooten and arthur lynch dropped fourth-down passes in the red zone . ’ ’ i think i turned my head at the last second and was thinking end zone , ’ ’ lynch said . ’ ’ it ’ s one of those situations .
it ’ s not so much i dropped the pass .
it ’ s that i let my team down .
at the end of the day , it ’ s one of those things that you can never forget , brush off your shoulders . ’ ’ it ’ s a win or a loss , and we lost .
but i will never able to forget this one .
if i run that play 49 more times , i make the catch . ’ ’ ’ ’ that ( stinks ) , ’ ’ gurley said . ’ ’ to go all the way down there like that and on fourth down you just give it to them , that ’ s a bad feeling right there . ’ ’
enunwa was named the game ’ s most valuable player — and for good reason .
after a timeout to discuss options on third and long , armstrong dropped back and heaved the ball as far as he could to enunwa , who was streaking wide open down the left sideline .
georgia cornerback shaq wiggins let enunwa go , but got no safety help .
quincy mauger had a chance to tackle enunwa , but bounced off him just past midfield . ’ ’ it was kind of just one of those calls where you don ’ t have too many options out there , stuck on your own 1-yard line , ’ ’ enunwa said . ’ ’ luckily our coaches trust in us as playmakers . ’ ’
ameer abdullah ran 27 times for 122 yards and a score .
it was his 11th 100-yard game of the season . ’ ’ i don ’ t think anybody wants to go out there and slosh around , ’ ’ georgia coach mark richt said . ’ ’ but i thought hutson , as time went on and got used to the elements , did a really good job . ’ ’
cockrell is & ldquo ; our style of corner , & rdquo ; pelini said thursday . & ldquo ; he can get up and press and get in people ’ s faces .
he gives you some experience .
he ’ s an older guy , a more veteran guy . & rdquo ; all of the footage is from the area around tim hortons and vida la pita on king street west in between caroline street and hess street .
us authorities seize ten bales of cocaine in puerto rico this woman has challenged me to speak out against non-tipping tyrants , and i could not live with myself if i failed to answer her call .
i will address my response not to her , but to the tightwads who torment her and her fellow toilers in the grueling , thankless " service industry . "
oh , but you don 't have it in your budget to tip your server ?
oh .
wait .
what 's this ?
all of prices on the menu just doubled ?
no more 2 for 20 deals ?
no more free refills ?
no more 9 dollar burgers and 12 dollar steaks ?
no more obscenely humungous portion sizes ?
kentucky republicans aim to reel in governor ’ s power in wake of obamacare permanent diaconatecalled to servehave you ever had a sense that you might be called to serve god through the blessings you have received ?
maybe you have sensed a call to assist our priests in the daily work of parish ministry .
maybe you have become acutely aware of the many injustices facing god 's people in the world , and you feel a call to try to make a difference .
all christians are called to serve , but perhaps you have felt a desire to move closer to god and his church in order to serve others in a new and purposeful way .
is god calling you to be a permanent deacon ?
brasstown , n.c. ’ s famed new year ’ s eve “ possum drop ” can go forward , because of a new law that authorizes the “ drop ” ( imagine the ball drop in new york ’ s times square but with a critter in a cage ) .
a last-minute court challenge of the law by animal rights activists was rejected allowing the event to proceed as long as the possum is released into the wild afterward .
sam northeast says he ’ s looking forward to the challenge of vice-captaincy in what he says could be ‘ a defining period ’ for the club .
east and botolph parish council has a vacancy for a parish councillor .
what happened ?
what do you think happened ?
faster than one can say " rand paul , " money to maintain the tsa workforce magically appeared , members of congress did not have to wait in long lines and the right-wing returned immediately to trashing federal expenditures for the rest of us .
the lights of congress sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 22 pm est reports : liz cheney to quit senate bid mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 22 am est nc democrats want long-term jobless aid revived mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 22 am est family : smithfield infant taken on ventilator , breathing on his own sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 22 pm est man loses apartment in blaze sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 28 pm est report : clintons to attend mcauliffe inauguration sun jan 5 , 2014 07 : 28 am est homicides on the peninsula hold steady in 2013 sat jan 4 , 2014 07 : 28 am est chicken , ham products recalled due to possible listeria contamination thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt gm unveils natural gas-powered impala thu oct 17 , 2013 11 : 28 am edt moneyman deserves investigation in n.c. mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 28 am est secret of the bahn mi : it ’ s in the baguette mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 28 am est what ’ s in a name ?
gort court , portsmouth mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 28 am est police investigate break-in , theft at carytown burgers and fries mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 28 am est coldest morning in years on the way mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 28 am est defendant in roanoke pharmacy heist gets probation wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est wasena housing proposal hits snag wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est christiansburg man gets 7 and a half years for violating probation wed dec 18 , 2013 11 : 28 pm est fed chair , unemployment on tap as congress returns mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 28 am est deep freeze puts chill in tailgating in green bay sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 28 pm est what to do when the power goes out in the winter fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 28 pm est i may be going out on a limb , but i for one don 't buy the idea that the oregon study means emergency rooms are going to get even more crowded .
" obamacare medicaid expansion to worsen hospital er burden , " said bloomberg .
cazacu : încercăm să inițiem procedura de contopire a pedepselor în cazul lui năstase ion cazacu , avocat al lui adrian năstase , a declarat luni că va iniția procedura de contopire a pedepselor primite de fostul premier .
îccj l-a condamnat pe fostul premier adrian năstase la 4 ani de închisoare cu executare pentru luare de mită ( corespondență ) comisia europeană : nu există semnale că un număr mare de români și bulgari s-au deplasat în alte state membre iranul , absent de pe prima listă a invitaților la conferința de pace asupra siriei mehedinți : în apele dunării continuă să se scurgă substanțe chimice din 24 decembrie sua intensifică livrarea de rachete și drone în irak pentru combaterea insurgenților al-qaida padurile romaniei vor fi sustinute financiar exclusiv din taieri de masa lemnoasa un nou studiu pune în evidență efectele nocive ale nopților nedormite asupra creierului la pas prin bucurești - documentar : palatul și muzeul cec din bucurești românii și bulgarii pot lucra oriunde în uniunea europeană de la 1 ianuarie forumul civic al românilor din covasna , harghita și mureș cere sancționarea extremismului maghiar guvernul francez ia măsuri pentru interzicerea spectacolelor umoristului dieudonné , acuzat de antisemitism marea britanie : grevă istorică a unor avocați pentru a denunța reducerile bugetare mii de suporteri i-au adus luni un ultim omagiu fostului mare fotbalist portughez eusebio , cu ocazia unui ultim tur de onoare al " panterei negre " pe stadionul " da luz " din lisabona , înaintea ceremoniei ...
jpmorgan ar putea plăti 2 miliarde de dolari pentru a scăpa de justiție în cazul fraudei madoff / presă / banca americană jpmorgan chase ar urma să plătească autorităților circa două miliarde de dolari pentru a închide o investigație în care este acuzată că a trecut cu vederea frauda masivă a lui bernard madoff ...
producătorul de gaze de stat romgaz vrea să achiziționeze un sistem de control acces și supraveghere video în valoare de de 3,93 milioane de lei , potrivit unui anunț postat pe e-licitatie.ro.
înalta curte de casație și justiție l-a condamnat pe adrian năstase la patru ani de închisoare în dosarul zambaccian .
el s-a prezentat , însoțit de avocat , la o secție de poliție din bucurești .
în acela ...
jonathan todd , purtătorul de cuvânt al comisarului european pentru ocuparea forței de muncă , afaceri sociale și incluziune , a declarat luni că nu pare să fi fost un număr mare de români care să fi ' inundat ...
codrin ștefănescu : sunt șocat de decizia îccj în dosarul " zambaccian " , un dosar cusut cu ață albă secretarul general adjunct al psd codrin ștefănescu a declarat luni , pentru agerpres , că este șocat de decizia înaltei curți de casație și justiție cu privire la dosarul " zambaccian " , adăugând că acesta ...
un număr record de tineri au sărit luni în dunăre , la tulcea , pentru a aduce la mal sfânta cruce aruncată în apă de episcopul tulcei , visarion .
anul acesta , treisprezece tineri - cel mai mare număr înregistrat ...
giurgiuveni cu cai și ponei împodobiți cu panglici colorate , hamuri împletite în diverse culori și chiar mărgele prinse șirag în coamă au primit luni botezul pentru acest an de la episcopul de giurgiu ...
fc petrolul ploiești va efectua în această iarnă două stagii de pregătire în antalya , ambele în localitatea belek , având programate mai multe jocuri amicale în compania unor adversari puternici , potrivit ...
" poziția copilului " și " love building " - pe primele locuri în box office-ul autohton al anului 2013 știința municipal dedeman bacău , vicecampioana țării , a reînceput luni pregătirile pentru reluarea meciurilor din actuala ediție a ligii naționale .
la reunirea de la sala sporturilor au fost prezenți ...
deutsche welle : din interese de partid , românii și bulgarii sunt bănuiți de intenții frauduloase eurodeputata germană rebecca harms , co-lider al grupului verzilor din parlamentul european , subliniază importanța liberei circulații a forței de muncă pentru europa și denunță campania declanșată de cre ...
sua : ' inside llewyn davis ' , marele câștigător al premiilor societății naționale a criticilor de film pocora ( pnl ) : condamnarea lui năstase este o decizie a justiției , nu văd de ce ar afecta usl decizia de condamnare a lui adrian năstase în dosarul zambaccian aparține justiției , iar această situație nu va afecta usl , a declarat luni purtătorul de cuvânt al pnl , cristina pocora .
ivan ( psd ) : năstase a plătit mult prea scump faptul că i-a fost oponent lui băsescu purtătorul de cuvânt al psd , cătălin ivan , a declarat luni , pentru agerpres , că a aflat cu tristețe de decizia înaltei curți de casație și justiție în dosarul " zambaccian " , adăugând că , în opinia sa , adrian ...
lea seydoux și lupita nyong 'o , printre nominalizații la categoria rising star a premiilor bafta actrița franceză lea seydoux , câștigătoare a palme d 'or la cannes cu rolul din ' la vie d 'adele ' , în regia lui abdellatif kechiche , este unul dintre cei cinci nominalizați la categoria rising star a premiilor ...
ministrul justiției : avem promovată o ordonanță de urgență privind noile coduri ministrul justiției , robert cazanciuc , a declarat luni , la finalul ședinței csm , că ministerul pe care îl conduce a promovat o ordonanță de urgență , încă de la finele anului trecut , cu scopul de a aduce ...
suceava : " zidul morții " rămâne , dar va fi iluminat corespunzător , susține prefectul prefectul de suceava , florin sinescu , a declarat presei , luni , că modificarea proiectului șoselei de centură a municipiului suceava , în zona așa numitului zid al morții , de pe dn 17 , nu este posibilă , ...
polițiștii vor pune în executare mandatul în cazul lui năstase ; el se poate prezenta și singur la arest fostul premier adrian năstase , condamnat definitiv la patru ani de închisoare cu executare în dosarul zambaccian , urmează a fi încarcerat în arestul poliției capitalei și , ulterior , într-un penitenciar ...
icr : pianistele ruxandra humă și anamaria andrițoiu concertează la st.martin-in-the-fields un recital de pian la patru mâini , reunind lucrări de wolfgang amadeus mozart și franz schubert , va fi susținut , marți , de pianistele ruxandra humă și anamaria andrițoiu pe vestita scenă muzicală de la ...
ai filmat sau fotografiat un eveniment ieșit din comun ?
noi îți publicăm știrea .
fiți la curent cu tot ceea ce se întâmplă important în românia și în lume .
hipnoza face minuni pentru slăbit şi lăsatul de fumat .
cu acest gen de sloganuri se laudă diverse organizaţii care te îndrumă să achiziţionezi programe prestabilite în 1 , 2 , 10 paşi pentru a renunţa la ...
alin popescu - secretar general centrul de studii despre bere , sanatate si nutritie pe lângă efectul său de rehidratare datorat conţinutului mare de apă , în proporţie de 93 % , berea fără alcool furnizează organismului şi substanţe nutritive atât de folositoare : vitamine , sodiu , potasiu ...
cristian socol - consilier personal al primului-ministru pe probleme macroeconomice la sfârşit de decembrie se trage linia peste anul curent .
din punct de vedere macroeconomic anul 2013 a fost un an bun .
putem spune că a fost anul recordurilor .
cariere pentru românia ioana călin ( designer ) : avem oameni talentați în țară , nu trebuie să cumpărăm neapărat de la branduri străine ( interviu ) sătmăreanca ioana călin este , în prezent , printre cele mai bine cotate tinere creatoare de modă românce în capitala italiei , pasiunea descoperind-o în copilărie când făcea îmbrăcăminte pentru păpușile ...
cariere pentru românia lucian mircescu : sportul are un potențial uriaș de a fi folosit ca un foarte eficace medicament social ( interviu ) lucian mircescu , în vârstă de 28 de ani , a readus la viață , pornind practic de la zero , sportul cu balonul oval în județul prahova , în ciuda faptului că el nu este un practicant de rugby .
dorind să îmbine ...
cariere pentru românia ion neculai ( ikedoo ) : vrem să scoatem peste granițe și un proiect legat de educație ( interviu ) ikedoo institute este un centru fondat de un arhitect ( ion neculai ) și de către un director de firmă de dezvoltare imobiliară ( vlad andrei ) care încearcă să demonstreze , prin cursuri care implică experimentarea ...
botezul domnului ( boboteaza ) . lit .
sf .
vasile cel mare .
sfinţirea mare a apei .
a murit , la bucureşti , iacob negruzzi , scriitor , membru fondator al ' junimii ' şi coordonator al revistei ' convorbiri literare ' , membru titular al academiei române . ( n .
31 dec .
1842 ) a murit pedagogul francez louis braille , inventatorul alfabetului sistemului de scriere pentru nevăzători braille . ( n .
4 ian.1809 ) s-a născut scriitorul şi omul politic ion heliade-rădulescu , membru fondator şi primul preşedinte al societăţii academice române ( 1867-1870 ) . ( m .
27 apr .
1872 ) sălaj : filiala județeană a udmr a strâns peste 13.500 de semnături pentru referendumul privind regionalizarea caraș-severin : sorin frunzăverde ar putea candida pentru funcția de șef al viitoarei regiuni vest conținutul acestui site este proprietatea agenției naționale de presă agerpres .
este interzisă republicarea sau redistribuirea conținutului fără menționarea sursei . jump to content gail newstead , from bicester with her new biker jacket and trousers won as part of the 12 dreams of christmas competition run by bennetts biking dreams a keen motorcyclist from bicester bagged her ultimate biking dream as part of a nationwide christmas campaign run by bennetts motorcycle insurance .
" for the record , i love my sister , but she is dead wrong on the issue of marriage , " mary cheney wrote in a facebook post in september. buffet breakfast for 110 baht all you can eat and i mean it and also buffet dinner all you can eat for 180 rd ) near soi town in town .
this is the foodmarket of pattaya where you can have popular with expats and those who want to buy their groceries then sit down for just hit " lets ride " & see more pattaya bike week pics [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best restaurants & eating ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] see stateline infographic : how many jobs did your state create ?
new york expanded its film tax credit to include live television shows , dubbed the “ jimmy fallon tax credit , ” to attract the new host of nbc ’ s “ the tonight show ” to relocate from california to the big apple .
maryland tripled the value of its film tax credit after it lured hbo ’ s “ veep ” and netflix ’ s “ house of cards ” to the state .
worried that colorado was giving too many tax breaks to big oil and gas companies , lawmakers there overhauled the state 's " enterprise zone " program .
the new law caps the amount of income tax credits that can go to large corporations " who certainly don ’ t need the tax credit , " said house majority leader dickey lee hullinghorst , a democrat .
part of the money saved by changing the tax credit program will be used as seed money for emerging bioscience industries .
contact usaerial views of goodland van gogh painting see goodland kiosk program mount pleasant man dies in snowmobile accident mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est new you in new year starts with goal setting mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est ready for a big chill mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est scc pitches idea that ’ s a home run with kids mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est mt .
pleasant man killed in snowmobile accident sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 13 pm est log house engulfed in flames mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 13 am est second outage hits thousand in metro des moines mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 13 am est iowa ’ s karen celebrate new year of freedom mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est i think : johnny orr , the outback bowl and isu basketball mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 13 am est bugging andy : remembering johnny orr mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 13 am est iowa criticized for not disclosing death details sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 13 pm est iowans grapple with new health law sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 13 am est iowans grapple with new health law mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est uptown bill ’ s to host elvis open mic mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 13 am est learning with technology and legos sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 13 pm est as cold looms , siouxland residents stock up on heaters , pet protection sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 13 pm est donations needed for siouxland mlk day of service sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 13 pm est say what ? i just do not understand how the government in all its wisdom is able to justify sending 27 million pounds in overseas aid to china and & # 8230 ; a major argument has broken out in westminster after the cabinet , labour frontbenchers and lib dem ministers decided to reject plans by an independent watchdog to raise & # 8230 ; tajikistan a boy & # 039 ; s family joins msf to help him fight tb meningitis temperatures in october will be 1 to 2 ° c above the long-term averages in khatlon province , at lower elevations of drd and in sughd province .
precipitation is expected to be above the norm in all the regions of the country. majority of calories to households in tajikistan while cooking oil urban population and is the primary market for importers and for distribution to the entire country .
khujand is a major city in the parts of the fergana valley in uzbekistan .
kurgan-tyube is a major market the south of the country and is a key market for in the abdurahmanov family ’ s flat on the 4th floor of this apartment block in kurgan-tube , simply turning the water tap is a pleasure . out comes clean , drinkable water .
muhammadjon abdurahmanov lives here with his parents , and he likes the change .
“ the problem with the water is over .
now i can wash my hands , take a shower , get on with my life faster , ” he says . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedobituaries - january 1 , 2014 on the bee turkey pm says he " favours " retrial of coup plot officers it ’ s the winter that keeps on giving and giving , or in mclean county ’ s case , it ’ s become a case of taking and taking and taking as the county ’ s “ the bill in the legislature did give the commissioner ( david bernhardt ) the purview to raise the limits , ” ted talbot said .
“ if he saw fit , he could conduct the traffic study , and upon the results of that , he would decide if it ’ s prudent . ”
if you agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should check the box indicating your agreement to the terms of this agreement on the registration page for the service .
if you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement , you should not check the box but you will not be able to proceed with the registration process for the respective service and become a subscriber .
to the extent you have access to , or are using , a service without having completed our registration process , you are hereby notified that your continued use of a service is subject to many of the terms and conditions of this agreement as explained in section 5 below .
other subscribers and users .
if your access to a service is provided by , or through a third party , or if you have paid for access to the service in connection with your subscription to one of our print publications , or purchased your subscription to the service through a retailer rather than from us directly , some or all of the " fees and payments " and " renewal " terms may not apply to you .
please contact the third party , retailer or our customer service department for details .
if you access a service as part of an " open house " free trial or otherwise without becoming a subscriber , you are hereby notified that all of the terms and conditions of this subscriber agreement except the section labeled " fees and payments " and " renewal " apply to your use and access of the service .
ricardo martinelli , the president of panama , has accused the consortium responsible for expansion works on the panama canal of great irresponsibility and endangering the project .
the consortium , known as ‘ grupos unidos por el canal ’ is made up of sacyr from spain , impregilo spa from italy , jan de nul from belgium & # 8230 ; analyst : papa john ’ s is a ’ buy ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 14 pm est the blue and red allegiances of baptist healths stephen hanson fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 14 pm est no classes monday for jefferson county public schools , u of l and others sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 14 pm est an ecosystem of our own making could pose a threat sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 14 pm est stocks off to bumpy start in 2014 fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est uofl ’ s tom jurich calls noon news conference sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 14 am est will colorado ’ s pot create buzz for medical marijuana in kentucky ?
fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est tips to protect pets in plunging temps fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est man arrested for allegedly trying to drown girlfriend in bath tub fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 14 pm est terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 56 am est sex offender seeks admission to kentucky bar sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est sex offender seeks admission to kentucky bar sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 14 pm est deliveryservice and you 'll be saving money on the usual cover by signing up you immediately saveon the cover prices plus telephone a member of the km direct team to find out which is best " there are two or three counties that only have one hospital and is a difficult piece , " urbanek said .
" i tell people that i am not here to advocate for the law , i am here to support the law and empower people to be able to use and understand the law , " said mitchell , whose employer , pancare of florida , received a federal grant for outreach efforts .
" but when people are hearing over and over and over that is bankrupting america , it is hard to break through . "
" we 're finding that even if i go to the far end of the county , there 's the issue of not having wi-fi to hook up to , " she said .
" those are huge hurdles for us to try to conquer in a large county like this . "
" i 've actually had people come up to me and boo me , " he said .
" they come up to me and go ' boo , hiss .
boo , hiss .
i will never sign up that . ' "
manning said the key to finding coverage in rural florida seems to be patience and a willingness to fill out all of the forms that might help someone get a reduction in premiums .
but a mistrust of both government and technology can complicate things .
( photo by diane bondareff / invision for papa john 's international / ap images ) cheesecake factory < a href = " http : / / www.huffingtonpost.com / 2012 / 12 / 04 / cheesecake-factory-ceo-david-overton-obamacare _ n _ 2236673.html " target = " _ blank " > david overton , ceo of the cheesecake factory , told cbs < / a > in december that obamacare " will be very costly " and " most people will have to [ raise prices ] or cheapen their product " in response .
" boeing agrees with the intent of the affordability care act – to provide increased access to coverage , to improve quality , and in the long run , to help manage the overall cost of the health care system , " boeing spokesman joseph tedino said in a statement provided to the huffington post in march .
" however , while the details and implications of the aca continue to emerge , the net financial impact to boeing since the inception of law and for the foreseeable future is negative . " © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedsubscribe to the bee on the bee denis sassou nguesso has tasked his ' super-minister ' jean-jacques bouya with wooing the russians . ( ... )
the president of congo-b was not so concerned by the new disclosures about his personal assets , such as jewellery and clothes , as by the fact that france has put new energy into investigating the brazzaville beach massacre . ( ... )
a dispute has broken out over exploration permits for iron ore at okanabora and ( ... )
ristolainen scores in ot to lift finland over sweden to gold at wjc kova : no fireworks during new year festival na queenter mawinda help does come from the skies sometimes , but not in the form of a caped superhero .
wbi energy plans 400-mile stretch for natural gas in nd [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ cambodia fishing tours ] [ sihanoukville & # 8220 ; civil war 150 & # 8243 ; at dsu ~ outgoing tax commissioner cory fong jenna healey , a second-year life sciences student , also remarked on how busy the day was .
“ there was a ton of clubs .
we tried to see all of them , ” she said .
in other ways , though , size was a limiting factor .
“ there are fewer people to volunteer for events , fewer people to volunteer for bake sales , and if people ’ s schedules conflict that ’ s more of an issue , ” mckinnon continued .
this year , she has worked to increase membership , and boh is now up to 30 members .
“ finding money — that ’ s the hardest part , ” said katarina polletto , the president of the new mcmaster alliance for body peace , when asked about the challenges of starting a new club .
“ especially as a new club , we know we ’ re not getting any money .
we requested , i think , $ 600 , but that ’ s not going to cover anything .
and we ’ re not going to get it , i know we ’ re not . ”
clubs are also able to fundraise on campus , but even this is made difficult by the amount of competition .
bake sales in musc , for example , are an efficient way to raise money , but space in the atrium is limited .
similarly , mckinnon is looking forward to utilizing the increased funding available to boh as a club in its second year .
“ i want to bring [ bracelet of hope ’ s founder ] dr. anne-marie back .
she ’ s really good . ”
meanwhile , liu will try to keep af ’ s momentum going .
“ i think you just got to do what you got to do .
be friendly , ” he said , when asked how to get noticed on campus .
“ [ our members ] get their friends involved , and it ’ s just a snowball effect . ”
alliance for body peaceasian f.o.c.u.s.bracelet of hopeclubsgolden zmcmaster students union the country . the company is cooperating with the environmental voluntary foundation to in the project , an initiative which was welcomed by officials in the ministry in the upcoming stages of the event , he also added . ( end ) why did the schools close ?
“ there was a perception that we had conquered dental disease , ” valachovic said .
“ kids weren ’ t getting cavities anymore so we thought we wouldn ’ t need as many dentists . ”
dental health did improve , he said , but not for the poor and those without insurance . analizele politice clasice pornesc de la sondajele de opinie , adaugă ceva informații din interior și produc o prognoză mai mult sau mai puțin valabilă , mai mult sau mai puțin influențată de simpatiile analistului .
de data asta , vă propun ceva diferit .
o analiză a intereselor stakeholders ( sună cam aiurea interesele părților interesate , așa că prefer termenul în engleză ) și , în ...
crin antonescu a dat de pământ cu partidul conservator după ce , anterior , la consiliul național , președintele fondator , dan voiculescu , i-a acuzat pe liberali , adică pe președintele acestora , fiindcă numai el poate fi luat în discuție ca lider și strateg al partidului , de comportament imoral , jignitor , și cel mai grav , de ocheade către traian băsescu .
în politică , la fel ca în economie , situația rămâne neschimbată .
usl este în continuare la 60 % , pd nu depășește 20 , firimiturile dreptei nu reușesc să devină relevante , deși se agită .
cu o putere contestată în stradă la un nivel care nu a mai fost înregistrat în trecutul recent , te-ai fi așteptat ca opoziția să puncteze și să înceapă să crească .
nu se întâmplă așa , ...
avem alegeri europene în jumatate de an şi ar trebui sã dezbatem mai mult ce presupun aceste alegeri , pentru a le întelege mai bine şi a vota in cunoştiinţã de cauzã .
discutând recent în ţarã cu studenţii pe acest subiect , am constatat cã nu existã o informaţie practicã despre aceast important proces electoral .
cineva chiar avansa idea cã este de fapt o înţelegere tacitã a unor ...
“ racordarea macrosistemelor ” & # 8211 ; acesta este mesajul convenabil când încercăm să explicăm pe înţelesul cetăţenilor construcţia europeană .
şi cum să nu fie aşa , când doar la bruxelles 100.000 de oameni se află în capitala belgiei fiindcă bruxelles-ul este şi “ capitala de facto a europei ” .
specificul bruxelles-ului constă în conglomeratul instituţiilor europene şi a ...
românia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ?
la început de miez de vară , agenda premierului româniei , victor ponta , a inclus un turneu asiatic , în cursul căruia a avut numeroase întâlniri bilaterale printre care cele mai semnificative fiind cele cu omologul său chinez & # 8211 ; li keqiang , cu şeful guvernului din hong kong & # 8211 ; leung chun-ying şi chiar cu noul preşedinte al chinei , xi jinping .
ecuaţia puterii a fost întotdeauna una foarte complicată în românia .
s-ar putea spune , pe bună dreptate , că am început cu stângul .
teroarea comunistă a dus , conform principiului acţiunii şi reacţiunii din fizică , la o destindere a resorturilor democratice care a produs jdemii de mişcări politice şi haos .
pe de altă parte , după 45 de ani de educaţie privind socialismul multilateral ...
usl îşi vede visul cu ochii .
ceilalţi luptă pentru a căpăta statutul de partide stabilitatea politico-socială .
o sintagmă care a devenit o obsesie naţională .
în condiţiile în care marea majoritate a românilor se consideră jignită de presupunerea că nu s-ar pricepe la politică , iar o altă parte rosteşte cu emfază , sentenţios , „ nu mă pricep , nu mă interesează ” , stabilitatea politico-socială străbate ca un coşmar somnul care a cuprins civismul românesc ....
usl , teatrul disensiunilor .
despre cei obligaţi să susţină unitatea puterii am avut impresia că lucrările comisiei parlamentare pentru modificarea constituţiei vor fi un fel de simpozion ştiinţific pe detalii tehnice , ştiţi dumneavoastră , ceva în genul echipei de instalatori care vin şi fac să nu-ţi mai curgă robinetul .
nu înţelegi prea bine ce meşteresc acolo , dar în final e ok , îţi convine .
mă bucur că nu e aşa , că m-am înşelat .
s-a încheiat , previzibil , și congresul pd-l , care a consfințit despărțirea de traian băsescu .
ca un copil , acesta s-a ofticat și și-a luat jucăriile certându-i pe cei care n-au mai vrut să se joace cu el .
dintr-o dată , pd-l nu mai era un partid democrat , ci tributar fesenismului .
cât l-a servit cu credință fusese bun .
până la urmă , este și asta o formă de recunoaștere a eșecului ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress pakistan : no more " business as usual " with united states - ferghana information agency , moscow © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday jan 6 , 2014 he called on groups which had not submitted names for the constituent assembly to immediately do so for further approval .
just a few years ago the governor of washington state opposed the legalization of marijuana .
her successor opposed initiative 502 , which called for the regulated legalization of adult use of the plant .
our state legislators , by and large , opposed the reform , as did our congressional delegation in the " other " washington ....
if you 're a cop , you just do it .
routinely .
you stop people , you frisk and question people .
you do it all the time .
in fact , if you were an nypd officer between 2004 and the middle of last year , you and your co-workers did this a whopping 4.43 million times ....
yet again we are shocked .
we hear the staccato bursts of semi-automatic fire echoing off the walls of a supposed place of safety .
we register not only the terror but the bewilderment on the faces of tiny survivors as they are marched , hands on the shoulders of kids in front ...
jane 's aged dog is splayed out in the back seat , groaning softly .
the animal is blind , incontinent , no longer able to navigate the stairs .
jane is taking her old friend to the vet 's , to be euthanized .
but she finds herself stuck in a long line of cars .
she peers up ...
why a constitutional amendment is the only way to go ignorance and intimidation = delay not defeat in march toward pot legalization selig says no to galarraga , calls for bipartisanship after " perfect game " humiliation fbi refuses to put republicans on terrorist watch , for now legalize marijuana ?
perish the thought , says drug czar -- banish the herb ... and the verb !
new drug czar : " we 're not at war with people in this country " open letter to the new " drug czar " from another top cop : end the drug war obama 's new drug czar couldn 't be any worse than bush 's .
will he be any better ?
sign your budle of joy up to be featured i & hellip ; ( statepoint ) in today ’ s tumultuous economic times , extra income is not just a luxury , but a & hellip ; mcdonald ’ s golden arches , target ’ s bull ’ s eye and starbucks ' mermaid are all instantly recog & hellip ; our conversation with winsor " skip " aylesworth , manager of the hennessy gas fund .
canterbury and holcombe reached the finals of the maxinutrition 5s men ’ s championship at wembley arena but sevenoaks narrowly missed out .
hunkered down in his residence at the roux camp , the central african republic president is counting on a dwindling band of the faithful to try to rule what can still be ruled in shattered nation . ( ... )
central african republic 's ousted president françois bozize has been in france since the end of july but he has not managed to get an audience with the french president . ( ... )
the important oil and mines ministry was cut in two in central african republic ’ s ( ... )
god and the world : a conversation with peter seewaldbehold the pierced oneon the way to jesus christcalled to communion : understanding the church todayco-workers of the truthdaughter zion : meditations of the church 's marian belief gospel , catechism and catechesis : sidelights on the catechism of the catholic church in the beginning ... "
a catholic understanding of the story of creation and the fall eschatology : death and eternal lifeimages of hope : meditations on major feastsvalues in a time of upheavalon the way to jesus christgod 's revolution : world youth day and other cologne talkschurch , ecumenism and politicsjesus of nazarethgod 's word : scripture , tradition , officenew outpourings of the spiriteurope : today and tomorrowthe dialectics of secularization.region-navigation kasn public filefanshawe student union > interrobang > submit a letter to the editor he mentioned that the radars currently in operation include the one situated at banguro , dar es salaam and another one recently put up in mwanza .
in pursuit of a lesser office , brad koplinski outshines democratic gubernatorial hopefuls please be careful of bad publicity about company 's in pattaya that arecharging has much has 70-80,000 baht up front for a visa plus the embassy fee ask 10,000 deposit and if they fail to obtain the visa then they refund the 10,000 in full or you say try again we do not ask for any more money even if we have to do 5 times but the embassy fee has to be paid every time the company 's to stear clear off are easy visa and key visa remember you have been conned .
be careful once these people have got your money you have no chance of getting it returned only further expense * holders of a certificate of entitlement confirming right of abode in the united kingdom .
vague , i want to be with _ _ _ _ _ or i want to see the uk will not suffice .
4 / .
documentation of interests : " while in the uk i would very much 7 / .
if in doubt , to any degree of questions to be answered in writing , the 10 / .
avoid if at all possible any mention of a personal relationship .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . jump to content prairie publicnorthern ontario an afterthought for seniors home care , ndp “ right now the jobs are so poorly paid that a call at walmart will pay more than a shift in home care , ” gelinas said .
why is it easier to get an assault weapon than to vote ?
thanks to the fracking phenomenon and sliding oil prices , tesoro and hollyfrontier are cash gushers .
maghreb confidential understands that the former governor of the banque centrale de tunisie ( bct ) , taoufik baccar , is being increasingly wooed by the front destourien headed by hamed ( ... )
the atmosphere is bleaker than ever at the carthage palace , residence of tunisia ’ s president .
the possibility thatmoncef marzouki could be sacrificed in an agreement between ennahda and the opposition nidaa tounes party ( see opposite ) has sent some of the president ’ s leading advisers scouting for new jobs . ( ... )
a former senior executivemarathon oil in tunisia between 1983-96 .
mongi haffouz ( ... )
the us agency for international development says it plans to leave ecuador amid an impasse with the government , just six months after the agency was kicked out of bolivia , in what analysts say is another sign of the waning us influence in the region .
in a letter to usaid partners in the country on thursday , acting mission director christopher cushing said the decision to leave ecuador comes “ as ... ( 12 / 14 / 2013 10 : 21 : 11 am ) new york paid $ 61,600 a day to re-open the statue of liberty ; south dakota shelled out $ 152,000 to fund mount rushmore for 10 days ; just like in the case of the introduction of weighbridges by tanroads and electronic fiscal devices by the tanzania revenue authority , there is great need for sensitisation of the people into appreciating the measures taken .
but this will work only if the introduction of the systems is not laced with needless inconveniences mainly due to corruption , inefficiency and lack of accountability by those supposed to ensure that they work as expected . © 2014 laurentian publishingthe puckhogs score top 10 in song quest during the inspection of the car , they located tools used in the burglary and the culprits were brought to justice .
the flames spread to the pantry but only caused superficial damage to the property .
police and firefighters arrived at the property and evacuated the building as a precaution .
the firefighters quickly put the fire out and remained in the area to ventilate and cool off the building .
although no one was hurt by the fire , an elderly woman had to be taken by her family to the health centre in olula due to a panic attack .
the fundación museo casa ibáñez in olula del río has secured the backing of local business giant cosentino .
the company , which is famous for its silestone quartz , has agreed to the maintenance of the museum the next three years .
also party to the agreement was the olula del río council .
the agreement allows the foundation to continue its programme of exhibitions and training as well as allow it to expand its promotion of art and culture through books and catalogues .
andrés garcía ibáñez is a 41-year-old almerian artist who has set up a foundation to showcase his contemporary realist art .
cosentino , meanwhile , is a producer of stoneware that is famous for its kitchen and bathroom counters .
it has more than 2,000 employees worldwide , with about half of those in spain .
it has its headquarters in cantoria . ' ngangari ' poacher nabbed with tusks , hippo tooth na nelson kessy tazara police also intercepted a bag with 19 kg of marijuana , the property of the suspect .
the only solution for the budget committee : how to muddle through to 2015 the bill to end the shutdown and default ... and to prevent it in the future a ' kiss ' ( keep-it-simple-stupid ) strategy for dems to win the ' 14 elections budget offsets to pay for tornado relief : end subsidies to oil companies the only way to avoid the sequester that can pass congress : the abrams plan can collapse of boehner plan cause ' realignment ' in the house ?
a big job for mitt romney : run hurricane sandy clean-up and rebuilding closing loopholes , not raising rates , to tax the wealthy ?
i smell a republicon romney , change ?
" from the people who brought you economic collapse and iraq " new study on contraception provides biden " shock and awe " opportunity at debate inside education : wall of fame gives nod to students ’ postsecondary plans sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 20 am est ucare for seniors to hold informational meetings sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 20 am est two-hour standoff ends in arrests tue dec 17 , 2013 12 : 20 pm est ancient tomah spearhead found sun oct 27 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt culvers bomb threat mon nov 11 , 2013 2 : 20 pm est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est shoppers stock up on supplies for arctic blast sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 20 pm est uw finalists to appear via video conferences mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 20 am est bridal faire planned at holiday inn mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est fond du lac county divorces mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est grandparents who travel to care for grandchildren are a growing trend mon jul 29 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt 2 dead , 2 missing in icy crash in winona mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est suspect arrested in wausau bar shooting fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 20 pm est person dies after car breaks through la crosse ice thu jan 2 , 2014 08 : 20 am est roach column : psp progresses relentlessly mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est column : brr it ’ s cold !
watch out for hypothermia mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est four ways to keep fitness as a top priority mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est matc ’ s alt seeks seat on baraboo city council mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est bundle up and stay warm ; today will be a cold one mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 20 am est cities weigh ash borer options sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 20 pm est no one hurt in norway house fire mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 20 am est zoo to be closed today mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 20 am est pulaski man charged with 11th owi offense wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt health can be factor in county planning wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt college basketball : badgers rally for home win mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est man in toddler-slapping plane case to be sentenced mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est frigid temperatures in states to plummet further mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est quotations in the news mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est yw acts to ’ be the change ’ it envisions mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est the latest news aggregated from top sources around the web foreclosures in manatee county mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est bradenton rep. boyd joins florida lawmakers at bcs mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est flagler county , sheriff may merge it sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est sw fla. standout enjoying the ride mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est watkins ’ stepfather says no decision yet mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est travelers at rsw finding other ways to get home sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est seminar in boynton to spotlight sex trafficking sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 10 am est lebron steps up as heat hold off raptors 102-97 sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est police charge man in fatal shooting of young mother in lauderhill sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est sprucing up the springs sat jan 4 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est two guards accused of beating an inmate are found not guilty fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est bouquets of color and scent mark annual camellia show sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est uf springs back to life as new semester begins sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est the top movers and shakers in jacksonville in 2013 fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est regulator suspends premier financial ’ s license fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est man killed by baseball bat in southside fight sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est man shot inside home on northside sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est health law leaves volunteer firefighting in limbo mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est passport leads feds to undocumented immigrant mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est stuck travelers in fll airport try to find a way out mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est florida lotto jackpot rises to $ 8 million sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est 3 young men rescue pelican sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est south florida forecast : warm in the morning , but get set to shiver at night as temperature drops to 40s mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est pinellas county church closed due to 2 sinkholes mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est ban on harvesting goliath grouper is revisited wed dec 25 , 2013 4 : 10 pm est protest halts sewer drilling at keys attraction theater of the sea mon dec 23 , 2013 08 : 10 am est marijuana , cocaine , hydrocodone ... and an expired car tag mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est man said he stole , pawned fantasy figurines to pay for drug addiction mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est auburn , fsu faithful will pull out all the stops mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est third ideas a charm for boy scout ian kay mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est boars head festival ’ highlight of the whole holiday season ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est par 3 golf clubhouse opening to be historic mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est free beer for amsterdam ’ s alcoholics mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est foreclosure numbers improving mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est seminole fans gathering for big game sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est group ’ s road trip comes to an end in pasadena mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est fsu alum is la ’ s favorite meteorologist mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est seminole fans gear up for the big game mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est bishop hurt in bolts ’ loss to oilers mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est tampa to lose its bead king after gasparilla mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est sarasota police shoot armed man mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est 10 questions for john sabol sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est sarasota police shoot and kill man with gun mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est silver alert issued for 83-year-old nokomis man sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est blessing of the fleet held in tarpon springs sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est rhonda ’ s world is an amazing garden wed jan 1 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est two men shot at tampa bar on kennedy wed jan 1 , 2014 10 : 10 am est subscribe to costa blanca news ; costa levante news ; costa almeria news or costa del sol news and join the group of people who are best informed about living in spaindigital subscription ( e-paper ) with an e-paper subscription you can read your paper on line , where and whenever you wish.order form > > > newspaper samplewould you like to peruse one of our newspapers briefly ? here you can read one of our old editions to enable you to get to know the paper .
sample e-paper > > > kiribati and samoa in the pacific were the first to see in the new year at 1000 gmt tuesday , in a wave of celebrations that will finish on the united states ’ remote howland and baker islands at 1200 gmt wednesday . ( 1 / 1 / 2014 12 : 40 : 12 am ) a fisherman who was bitten by a shark while untangling a fishing net is now recovering on oahu after a long range medevac conducted by the coast guard . ( 12 / 16 / 2013 8 : 28 : 22 pm ) contact us : enterprise @ easttexasnews.comhow much the minimum wage should be and why | cadran politic « previouscât ar trebui să fie salariul minim şi de ce © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress ferghana information agency , moscow 10 / 5 / 2012 - working in antarctica - are you up to the challenge ?
working in antarctica – are you up to the challenge ?
tax cuts also are being suggested by arizona gov. janet napolitano ( d ) , who is urging $ 100 million in targeted tax credits and cuts that she has dubbed " smart tax relief , " and kansas gov. kathleen sebelius ( d ) , who wants to nix the property tax that businesses pay on new machinery and equipment in hopes of providing a shot in the arm for the state 's economy .
wisconsin gov. jim doyle ( d ) has proposed a " living wage " tax credit as one aspect of a broad " affordability agenda " designed to assist families struggling to stay afloat in the badger state. exploded in burundi 's capital bujumbura as revellers were ushering in the new of midnight , a grenade exploded in the buyenzi neighbourhood , killing one and in the capital and across the country but two other grenades exploded in the © 2014 laurentian publishingone man dead in highway 69 crash eight years of isaf operations in afghanistan .
who are the winners ?
president of afghanistan is through with " dangerous operations " of foreign contingents плетеная мебель | пушкин .
пансионат горный воздух - неоконченная проза. плетеная мебель | пушкин .
пансионат горный воздух - неоконченная проза . monday jan 6 , 2014 of juba and were moving towards the capital .
" we have forces in the west of juba , and our forces are heading towards juba from the east , " he said in a phone call with sky news arabia . he said his forces wanted to " control juba because it is the center of towards juba and the peace talks in addis ababa regarding the ceasefire .
" we for nearly a century the sower has been of help and assistance in catholic education .
we offer creative ideas and methods to give you confidence in accessing and passing on the riches of the faith in all its holiness , beauty and integrity .
published four times a year , the sower is a publication of the maryvale institute in birmingham , england .
click here to subscribe to the sower review and visit the rest of the website , http : / / www.thesowerreview.org / index.asp in the russian federation and subsequent decision by the country to ban a report summarizing the accomplishments of the u.s. humanitarian mine the prs 2 presents the first three-year plan to operationalize the country 's to serve as a medium-range socio-economic development programme for the in the scope and quality of social services aimed at easing the burden the focus of the research is on eu 's funding programmes in 2004-2007. do exist as the main perquisites such as financial institutions for delivery , in wfp and among the ngos and some investment would be needed in order and langar villages of kalai-surkh jamoat , and kochamandi village of nusratullo mitigation in order to forestall costly damage to the economy , population , do not take steps to prepare for and mitigate the effects of drought , damage after the reading , the response was the recitation of the prayer for the year of faith , the nicene creed .
a decade of the rosary was recited as a prayer for the entire diocese of duluth .
the students led the procession out of the church , while reciting the our father .
now , almost a year has passed and we are preparing for the conclusion of the year of faith on the solemnity of christ the king , nov .
24 .
“ i don ’ t know what the wave is going to be , and i don ’ t think the legislators do either , ” storey said .
“ they ’ re all running scared a little . ”
but the sluggish recovery — and the response of states to it — is still a touchy issue , especially in the 16 states with governor ’ s races where unemployment exceeds the national average .
new law easing car sales takes effect in cuba , but here a sedan costs as much as a ferrari nibong tebal : dua penyamun mengurung dan cuba membakar hidup-hidup seorang pemandu lori dalam kejadian di taman tambun emas , di sini , kelmarin .
dalam kejadian jam 3 petang itu , mangsa berusia 49 tahun keluar melalui pintu penumpang untuk mengelak dirinya terbakar sebelum lari menyelamatkan diri ke sebuah restoran berhampiran tempat kejadian . ( 1 / 5 / 2014 2 : 20 : 31 pm ) will 2014 be remembered for giving us a new constitution ?
as the year 2013 comes to the end and becomes part of history , the impact of the now infamous initiative , originally genuinely conceived to deal a big blow to poachers and their accomplices in crime , is being more felt than was the case when it was launched , a few months back .
josina leguit is a dutch student pursuing a bachelor ’ s degree in communication science in the netherlands .
during her life time , she had never been to africa and tanzania in particular .
ict can transform the way that education is delivered and open the way to a new pedagogy . it can make it easier for teachers to plan and find high quality materials , and it can help pupils to find out more about the subjects that they are studying .
our land of peace may be known for experiencing periodic shortages of all sorts of commodities and services , but not new plans and initiatives .
the latest initiative in the offing , which was recently hinted on by the official government newspaper , is the code of conduct for our honourable legislators .
at the end of last week i was invited to an event on fundraising to support needy students who are studying at kibasila secondary school .
this event was organized by roots and shoots club at the school .
complaints on operation to get rid of illegal immigrants should be addressed indeed , this is a laudable idea that was the brainchild of the international inspiration tanzania women ’ s task force which met recently at the british council in dar es salaam .
an interesting workshop on auditing issues in tanzania was held in dar es salaam during the last week of august 2013 , and some of us got the opportunity to be participants .
one may as well say it was unique , in the sense that unlike many other professional meetings which normally bring together birds of a feather to professionally flock together , this time around you had a combination of a professional auditors and laymen and women , who for two consecutive days seriously deliberated on auditing matters – in the interests of the general public .
as football federations on the continent get on with the weighty business of improving african football , the need to cherish the past while trying to boldly seize the future is absolutely important .
it is sad to note that despite its great potential , women ’ s football in the country has still yet to take off in a really meaningful and significant way .
roger slack in his article ’ pedactice - the use of multimedia in schools ’ which was published in september , 1999 , comments that the growth of information and communication technology ( ict ) in society is reflected in policies to encourage the use of ict in education and the development of educational multimedia .
the 2013 global corruption barometer report , published annually by transparency international , is now on the bookshelves and online .
for some of us who happened to attend the smart partnership movement meeting held in dar es salaam last week for the first time , the event was an eye opener in a number of ways .
who 'll bell the cat for evasion of tax by multinational companies ?
great supplement and i love the packaging !
viagra price ?
high quality of the medications we offer is the subject of our primary concern .
scott hahnchristopher westtheology of the body institutetheology of the bodytheology of the body for teenstheology of the body for teens leadeship trainingdefenders of the catholic faith , steve raypeter kreeft we 're proud to be the publishers of the newspaper serving the minot air force base the minot air force base community and the minot area communities .
this site provides you a way to view the newspaper , how to improve quality of education in the caribbean for the next generation ?
la 24 de ani de la momentul decembrie 1989 , în contrast cu visurile și speranțele de atunci ale românilor , avem o clasă politică imorală , tot mai ruptă de cetățeni , care s-a înconjurat cu ziduri legislative menite să-i protejeze privilegiile .
prefăcându-se că sunt în tabere opuse , politicienii mimează democrația dar pe sub masă își dau mâna pentru a satisface interesele îmbogățiților de tranziție și ale corporațiilor străine .
în timp ce ei își pregătesc superimunități și amnistii , abuzul de putere și de forță devine singura lege aplicabilă restului de 20 de milioane de români .
disprețul este moneda cu care au tratat și tratează cererile legitime ale cetățenilor , strigate de nenumărate ori în stradă de la 1 septembrie .
de aceea este necesar să facem un pas înainte , să-i determinăm pe unii dintre ei să plece de la putere , iar pe ceilalți să dărâme zidurile legislative care acoperă afacerile murdare și împiedică venirea unor oameni noi , necompromiși , să gestioneze treburile publice .
sunt numeroase revendicările care ar trebui incluse pe listă pentru a readuce românia la o stare de normalitate , le-am notat doar pe cele mai dureroase în momentul actual și în special pe cele ce pot deschide uşa schimbării .
de aceea , cerem : destituirea conducerii jandarmeriei și anchetarea abuzurilor comise la pungesti și în alte localități , cu participarea unor experți desemnați de consiliul europei .
abrogarea noilor modificări aduse codului penal , legii amnistiei precum și respingerea proiectului de modificare a legii exproprierii .
modificarea legii partidelor politice pentru relaxarea condițiilor de înființare a acestora .
revizuirea legilor electorale prin eliminarea pragurilor și reducerea numărului de semnături pentru înregistrarea candidaților independenți .
desecretizarea tuturor contractelor și clauzelor confidențiale încheiate de statul român , cu excepția celor din domeniul apărării și siguranței naționale .
interzicerea mineritului pe bază de cianuri în românia și includerea roșiei montane pe lista patrimoniului mondial unesco .
interzicerea prin lege în românia a fracturării hidraulice de mare volum în explorarea și exploatarea gazelor de șist și a altor hidrocarburi provenind din zăcăminte neconvenționale .
anularea concesiunilor și licențelor de explorare și exploatare a hidrocarburilor de șist .
« previousemil constantinescu a primit premiul de excelență la conferința anuală a institutului de diplomație culturală “ the state shouldn ’ t be counting on people to violate laws in order to pad their budgets , ” brandes said .
certain somalian intermediaries to an american law firm played a significant role in the resignation of the governor of the central bank of somalia , yussur abrar . ( ... )
the somalian secretary of state to the presidency , farah sheikh abdiqadir , has been ( ... )
every year on dr. seuss ’ birthday , my partner richi dons an impeccable cat in the hat ou ...
father of autistic son takes advantage of health care law divorces for nov .
18 , 2013 mon nov 18 , 2013 02 : 26 am est ringing in the new year with music fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 26 am est delivery from realtors for kids wed jan 1 , 2014 12 : 26 pm est huron act celebrates five years mon dec 30 , 2013 10 : 26 am est council to review developers ’ demand mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 26 am est dakotas brace for brutal wind chills sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 26 pm est sdsu in shape for conference season mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 26 am est badgers point guard marshall transferring to sdsu mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 26 am est coyote men rip iowa wesleyan sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 26 am est rc man among thousands to buy legal pot fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 26 pm est safety questions after nd oil train derailment fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 26 pm est mayor : nd town dodged a bullet in crude explosion tue dec 31 , 2013 2 : 26 pm est harris health ceo a candidate for dallas job thu jan 2 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est tips to beat the hard freeze in se texas sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 27 pm est a unique project in aquaponics is in the works at parry sound ...
grief at holiday time or anytime not as easy as you might think it ’ s time to renew annual liquor licenses for center bar owners and the renewal was on the line for cahoon ’ s bar and grill .
if you ' wanna ' settle in dar , deepen your pockets ! na gerald kitabu cement dealers in the city of dar es salaam are now holding everyone at ransom they want to decide how much you pay for your new house .
our investigations reveal that cement dealers in dar es salaam have since decided to gang up and create a shortage of the product in the city and its environs . & ldquo ; if you are used to pay a driver sh40,000 per day and he stays in a queue for four days , that ’ s sh160,000 without obtaining anything .
will you sell the item at the same price ? & rdquo ; he asked .
the company ’ s director of human resources jayne nyimbo-taylor said the company was in full production and had never at any one point reduced output .
commenting on hiked power tariffs , she said that the company usually reviews it plans at the start of the year and this has not yet taken place , so it was a bit difficult to tell how much the company has been affected .
calgary web design by media dog productionsidei contemporane | cadran politic este de-a dreptul suspectă insistenţa şi , mai ales , maniera în care sunt contestate unele abordări în materie de istorie şi arheologie , anume cele care pledează pentru importanţa istorică a tracilor sau , şi mai „ rău ” , a dacilor .
toate sunt luate în derizoriu şi băgate de-a valma în cazanul comun al „ tracomaniei ” sau „ dacomaniei ” , ca manifestări patologice ale insuficienţei ...
problematica dezvoltării regionale a apărut pe agenda politică europeană odată cu sfârşitul anilor 1950 sub forma politicilor de dezvoltare regională .
politicile de dezvoltare regională din acestă perioadă erau mai degrabă centraliste în concepţie şi în administrare .
ele au fost concepute ca reprezentând o parte integrată a politicii naţionale , având ca principal obiectiv asigurarea ...
bruxelles-ul este capitala de facto a uniunii europene .
vrem , nu vrem , peste 75 % din legislaţia aplicată în românia îşi are originea la bruxelles .
există o dinamică contemporană la nivelul ue – se discută reforma instituţiilor europene şi noile competenţe , iar românia trebuie să fie activă în acest mecanism de poziţionare . „ iugoslavia și tito – cei mai buni prieteni ai româniei ” această legendă , la dimensiuni de mit , este întreținută de mai mulți factori din manipulatorii de opinie publică românească din mai multe motive .
unele mai cunoscute , altele mai puțin .
unul dintre cele mai importante este că serviciile secrete din cele două țări au colaborat excelent în perioada 1954-1989 în combaterea opoziției față de regimurile instalate în cele două țări ....
îmbogățirea nu aduce glorie .
conștient de faptul că cei mulți vor rămâne în urmă , iar acest lucru se va transforma într-o problemă la un moment dat , deng xiaoping a inițiat reformele care au asigurat renașterea economică a chinei .
din anumite puncte de vedere deng a avut o sarcină ușoară în comparație cu problemele pe care xi jinping trebuie să le înfrunte .
conştient sau nu , traian băsescu a trasat perfect rolul văzut de clasa politică pentru românia : bazin de forţă de muncă .
ieftină .
fără drepturi şi fără pretenţii .
să zică mersi că au un servici şi nu mor de foame , deşi există studii care arată un grad mare de sărăcie în rândul angajaţilor din românia , care trece de 25 % .
un salariu minim de 540 lei net ...
conform lui marc chevrier ( & # 8220 ; une grand oubliée : société civile & # 8221 ; ) , societatea civilă reprezintă „ ansamblul raporturilor interindividuale , a structurilor familiale , sociale , economice , culturale , religioase , care se dezvoltă în societatea dată , în afara cadrului şi intervenţiei statului ” .
aceasta cuprinde forme asociative de tip apolitic şi care nu sunt părţi ale unei instituţii ...
notă : textul de mai jos a fost scris în 2007 .
merită citit pentru o confruntare cu realitatea politică actuală .
la nivel european dezbaterea momentului este “ mai multă sau mai puţină europă ” .
la noi nu se dezbate , traian băsescu a decis că ne trebuie mai multă , usl n-are nici o opinie .
crin antonescu încearcă să joace rolul anti-europeanului , dar el nu se pune , fiindcă el doar este contra lui băsescu şi dacă acesta a zis albă , crin nu poate zice nici măcar bălană , obligatoriu trebuie să ...
populaţia româniei este concentrată în proporţie de 44,8 % în mediul rural .
însă , dacă avem în vedere că 13 oraşe au mai puţin de 5.000 de locuitori , 60 de oraşe au până în 10.000 de locuitori , multe oraşe şi municipii au în componenţă sate , iar multe nu îndeplinesc condiţiile minimale impuse de legislație pentru statutul de oraş sau municipiu , ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota frédéric gerschel : is manuel valls right to seek to ban dieudonné 's shows ?
what do you say when a certain humorist asks , " if you censor dieudonné today , what 's to stop another government from censoring me tomorrow ? "
i say that he is confusing two things in an unusual and dangerous way .
because the work of a humorist whose freedom of expression and , by extension , freedom to be provocative , is indeed sacred has absolutely nothing in common with the machinations of a neo-nazi agitator engaged in an open campaign on themes that are not opinions but crimes .
the two individuals are not in the same business .
there is a fundamental difference in what they 're saying .
and , short of imagining madame le pen in power , there isn 't a serious judge in france who would say : " having convicted x for defiling the memory of the victims of the holocaust , i will now convict y for making fun of minister smith and minister jones . "
generally , do you believe that racism and anti-semitism are on the rise in france ?
was france right to intervene in the central african republic ?
did we fail to appreciate the depth of the hatred between the two communities ?
two and a half years since war broke out in syria the moderate opposition appears exhausted .
who should we be supporting today ?
the firm position he took on the rise of anti-semitism and racism .
yes , if he doesn 't delay in spelling out the " initiatives " for " the future of europe " that he has announced .
because the " france alone " of maurras is over .
but a europe ashamed and disgraced , a europe discounted , a europe in name but not in deed , a europe afraid of its own shadow -- that 's a sure path to decline for all of the nations that make it up .
on this point , the outcome of the next elections will be critical .
either we give new impetus to the european dream or we yield to the nationalists on the right and left and drop out of history for good while simultaneously plunging deeper into unemployment and , perhaps , poverty .
it can also be found on the investors.com home page , where it 's updated intraday . the criteria for a stock to make it on the list are as follows : qatari sheikh abdullah bin nasir al thani has once again failed to respond to the demands of the junta de andalucia in the construction of la bajadilla port in marbella .
in august 2013 , he paid the € 1.8 million demanded from the junta de andalucia for the management fees for the & # 8230 ; click for more localwork.ca halton region jobsusla în stare de hipnoză & # 8211 ; marian romanescu | cadran politic home vitrina cu cărți usla în stare de hipnoză & # 8211 ; marian romanescu cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile întrucât marian romanescu este victima propriilor ficţiuni aşa cum rezultă dintr-un diagnostic acordat cu dărnicie de autorităţile militare prin decizia nr .
4148 / 13 din 31 iulie 1990 . încercările autorităţilor , atât militare , cât şi civile , au eşuat datorită deciziei 43137 / 98 romanescu vs românia a curţii europene a drepturilor omului ( cedo ) care demonstrează cu claritate încălcarea articolului 5 paragraful 2 din convenţie .
( virginia mircea ) « previousrussian opposition , the voters and wilted laurels of dissidence next a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress bhg news - mclean county independent - news the ice skates are hanging on the wall , ready for skaters .
the ice is on the rink , ready to be used .
and the phones have been ringing off the hook at garrison ’ s indoor skating rink from people inquiring if and when the facility will be open .
but there is no answer .
there will be no ice skating in the indoor rink this year .
pay hikes for teachers grew in the single digits over the past years .
if the governor has his way there will be more pay increases tied to students ’ successes .
the douglas post office is relatively small – in fact , it ’ s about the right size for a few patrons to be served at a time .
the behind the headlines 2013 's top five of top fives two people who had evidence falsified by dookhan are suing her and the employees of the crime lab and the suffolk county district attorney ’ s office in federal court for wrongful imprisonment .
few state civil claims are being pursued because massachusetts caps damages for state negligence at $ 100,000. wow did everyone see david brooks op ed in the new york times today pic.twitter.com / mjw5t3tlr7 — l ǝ o и ( @ leyawn ) january 3 , 2014 jesse and jodie mcginley were the natural state 's representatives for donate life 's " light up the world " float at the rose bowl parade in pasadena , california .
their late son eli was one of the float 's honorees. the tollway .
the trip should cost 350 + baht on the meter if traffic minimal .
as at may 2009 many cabs will turn off the meter and ask you for 400 baht .
thats ok as only a 50 baht tip if going thru the tollways and to nana soi 4 sunhumvit .
if not they may stop and throw you out on the highway ? ? ?
keep the main shit as the taxi stand will already give the butt to the driver and try to remember his cab number .
22 / .
when paying with a 1000 baht note make it be known --hold it up or display it and say loudly 1000 baht as many times in bars the staff will say it was only 500baht and the patpong gogos are reknown for this.try to attract other foreigners attention as well to avpoid an altercation. make sure you have enough money to cover your bar bill ? ? ? all the time ..
if you need pickup from the airport cost is 200baht for 2 people and over this is extra and to & from the bus or boat 60baht charge .
all rooms are nice and large and well set out and you can hire bikes or motorcycles here as well .
chian and his staff can offer you guidance and the best places to go into the hills around chiangrai which are undoubtedly the best there is .
we drove in the outback some 10 years ago and the scenery and hill tribe visits are out of this world .
try is or let the chian guides assist you .
now a growing number of states and school districts are increasing their focus on students who are “ chronically absent ” from school — whether the absences are excused or unexcused . states have different definitions of chronic absence , but it is often defined as missing at least 10 percent of the school year for any reason .
the recommendations the crc has floated for deliberation by the planned constituent assembly are not its own but a summary of what tanzanians in their millions think and believe .
now the ball is in the people ’ s court , meaning it is now upon members of the constituent assembly to debate the recommendations and come up with the final draft for a final position through a referendum .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . tajikistan | reliefweb tajikistan “ facts for life : nutrition and growth ” is now available in the tajik language to improve feeding practices of young children new delhi , jan 4 ( ians ) beginning a five-day visit to india jan 6 , bhutan 's king jigme khesar namgyel wangchuck and queen jetsun pema have been invited by president pranab mukherjee to stay at the renovated dwarka suite in the rashtrapati bhavan . ( 1 / 4 / 2014 9 : 02 : 07 am ) the representative of the organization for security and cooperation in europe on freedom of the media , dunja mijatović , recently praised the kyrgyz authorities for “ creating a favorable media environment . ”
however , she fell short of specifying what exact “ favorable environment ” she meant in a country , which lived through the horrors of two “ revolutions ” and the blood chilling interethnic carnage .
what do such elevated praises testify to — the speaker ’ s incompetence in said matters or de-jour hypocrisy ?
uzbek separatism – fiction of politicians or threatening reality in kyrgyzstan ?
kyrgyzstan : who is who ?
the deputies " modeled " the cabinet council fighting for ourselves , we are fighting against … ?
on the role of ethnicity in the tragic events in southern kyrgyzstan kyrghyz and uzbeks in osh : just another local interethnic conflict ?
the war with no winners : the most difficult is to forgive and live on « bakiev ’ s case » – the tragedy of one family and one country the alleged murderer of gennadiy pavlyuk is the officer of kyrgyz secret service how to make bishkek more comfortable for visitors and citizens ?
kyrgyzstan : who will take the bishkek house of askar akaev ?
outstanding schemers .
moscow and bishkek played out the manas intrigue to the end the pentagon goes out of its way to retain the airbase in kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : the opposition forces demand the resignation of kurmanbek bakiev kyrgyzstan : is president kurmanbek bakiyev trading the us army for russian dollars ?
new chairman of the kyrgyz parliament : defector , smuggler , or " terrorist " ?
the coming of spring is to be celebrated without the president for the second time in the history of sovereign kyrgyzstan look who is here !
a brief review of the new parliament of kyrgyzstan kyrgyzstan : president bakiyev 's ak jol is the leader of the parliamentary race action in memory of journalist alisher saipov to take place in bishkek on december 4 menino leaves behind legacy of developmentboston globeboston mayor tom menino : the regular guy who ruled 20 yearsnbc bay area - by jon schuppeopinion : menino : ' i 'm looking to the future , not the past 'boston heraldsee all 259 sourcesrelated boston “ because of increases in bike use and people walking and public transit , there ’ s been a big decrease in the number of cars on campus , ” said mike waddington , a professor in the school of geography and earth sciences .
waddington is the associate director of the mcmaster centre for climate change and one of the professors leading the development of macmarsh .
“ we view it as not so much replacing a parking lot as creating education and research opportunities , as well as being a prettier entrance to the university . ”
a greener welcome to mac is not just a tangential benefit of macmarsh .
it would also help to fulfill mcmaster ’ s long-held goal of minimizing impact on cootes paradise , environmentally and aesthetically .
as for the marsh ’ s effects on its residential neighbours , that ’ s a facet of the project that has to be examined carefully .
“ it ’ s a “ way of linking up , let ’ s say , ‘ disparate ’ forms of knowledge and saying ‘ hey these are all part of our shared story about this place ’ . ”
what are some of the reasons that a post would be removed ?
prairie public and ducks unlimited have teamed to produce a documentary about one of the most threatened biomes on the planet — a biome that is in our own backyard .
prairie public ’ s 30-minute dvd “ the bank of north dakota ” chronicles the bank ’ s fascinating history and reviews its key role in financing the state ’ s economic future .
considered view : the photography of wayne gudmundson dvd plus two bonus docs most people have heard that it ’ s “ rockin ’ in the bakken , ” but what does that mean to the residents of the williston basin ?
faces of the oil patch describes the new visage of the oil patch — the areas in and around williston , watford city , tioga , stanley , new town , parshall , and fort berthold — in the words of the people who live and work in these communities .
crosslake , mn 56442 to fix the problem of inequality , fight for full-employment | roger hickey the more the demand , the better off the vendor : golden rule of oriental bazaars © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reserveddrilling for value at national oilwell varco - barrons.com a 37-year-old man was badly bitten on the foot by a shark on christmas day in northern new caledonia , police and firefighters said today . ( 12 / 26 / 2013 9 : 12 : 51 am ) aden : tribesmen in yemen 's restive hadramawt province blew up a major oil pipeline in retaliation for the killing by the army of one of their men , officials said on monday .
aden : tribesmen in yemen ’ s restive hadramawt province blew up a major oil pipeline in retaliation for the killing by the army of one of their men , security and industry officials said monday .
tribesmen in yemen 's restive hadramawt province blew up a major oil pipeline in retaliation for the killing by the army of one of their men , security and industry officials said monday .
january 6 , 2014 : the government refuses an american request to extradite a powerful local politician , abd al wahhab muhammad abd al rahman humayqani , so the u.s. can prosecute him for financing al qaeda in arabia .
the u.s. placed sanctions on humayqani in & # 8230 ; 05 de enero de 2014 , 13 : 08sanaa , jan 5 ( prensa latina ) mediators sent by president abd rabu mansur hadi to the north of yemen have been unable to stop the combats between salafists and members of the ethnic group & # 8230 ; calgary web design by media dog productionscheerleader case : mother of chris rountree speaks out on the bee safe environment > child lures preventionclick here to enter child lures prevention web site why does the uk give £ 2m in aid to argentina ?
revelation comes as south americans launch yet another diatribe on the ...
russia and kazakhstan signed an intergovernmental agreement on tuesday to guaranteeing transit of russian oil to china . ( 1 / 3 / 2014 6 : 26 : 49 pm ) privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved . sitemap timorese sue australia in un court for illegal intel raid yoga nidra course offered by the california college of ayurveda in 2014 in california and bahamas rwanda : cj rugege - uk must extradite or prosecute genocide suspects productivity in its economic survey of singapore . ( end ) the silsbee bee the athena-fidus satellite is readied for arianespace first heavy-lift mission of 2014 website available to you subject to the following terms and conditions .
by using the site you agree to these conditions .
if you ensure you are aware of any changes made by the km media group note : use of the website and the submission by you of any obligations set out in our privacy policy .
you must read the policy .
if you do not agree to the terms of the policy you should operated by a third party you may be asked to supply information content in any way except for your own personal , non-commercial also agree not to deep-link or frame to the site for any purpose , technology now known or hereafter developed .
in addition , you waive any and all moral rights in such text or graphics. of such material in the site and interactive services is owned by construed as conferring by implication or otherwise any licence or km media group limited is not responsible for and does not give any warranties regarding any such web sites or services and is not responsible for or liable in relation to the content or your use of ( or to third party products and services ) , is provided " as is " and on an " as available " basis without any representations or any kind from or in connection with the use of kent online .
6.1 due to the nature of the internet , km media operation of the site and interactive services .
all liability of km for any loss whatsoever arising from your use of or inability to endeavours to ensure that any information it holds on you is kept secure .
however , due to the nature of the internet , km media group we do not actively moderate , monitor or edit contributions to the reader comments but we may intervene and take such action as we think necessary .
if you have any concerns over the contents on our conditions and notices under which kentonline is offered .
you are to any interactive services provided on the site immediately for you agree to fully reimburse km media group limited for all losses , whatsoever suffered or incurred by the km media group limited as a consequence of your breach of this agreement and your use of the km media group limited shall not be liable to the other for any loss or damage which may be suffered by any party due to any cause wales and you hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the chirlane mccray and anni kuan .
( photo from anni kuan via world journal ) it could pay for 2,000 mcdonalds apple pies for every single american .
“ we ’ re at a point where we are going to take as good care of the system that we have now for as long as we can , but we know that we can 't hold our own for long , ” said dave nichols , the agency ’ s director .
“ you don ’ t add a room on a house when the roof is leaking . ”
the odds weren ’ t in favor of jimmy ’ s pizza / longshots on the first day of the mcquades softball tournament .
a bird pooped on one player and another player broke her nose during the team ’ s first game .
jpl battled through poop and injuries to capture the mcquades rec three division title .
as reported in cbnews last week , meps are trying to get rid of loopholes used by airlines to wriggle out of their responsibilities towards passengers.as the number & # 8230 ; correa insta a jóvenes de ecuador a reflexionar sobre el voto en comicios seccionales el mensaje lo envió correa un día antes de iniciar la campaña para esta elección , en la que los ecuatorianos elegirán 23 prefectos provinciales , 23 viceprefectos , 221 alcaldes , 1.305 concejales municipales urbanos y rurales y 4.079 vocales de juntas parroquiales presidente de bolivia confirma viaje a nueva york para asumir presidencia del g-77 el presidente de bolivia , evo morales , confirmó que viajará este martes a nueva york , estados unidos , para asumir oficialmente en la sede de la organización de las naciones unidas ( onu ) la presidencia del grupo de los 77 ( g-77 ) más china onu envía invitaciones para conferencia internacional sobre siria en ginebra la organización de las naciones unidas ( onu ) anunció este lunes el envío de invitaciones a las cerca de 35 delegaciones convocadas para la ii conferencia internacional sobre siria , conocida como ginebra ii , prevista para el 22 de enero john kerry concluye visita a medio oriente sin acuerdo entre israel y palestina el secretario de estado de estados unidos , john kerry , concluyó su visita a medio oriente sin conseguir un acuerdo entre israel y palestina para avanzar en la búsqueda de la paz entre ambos estados 23 muertos y 300 heridos en bangladesh tras elecciones parlamentarias 23 personas han muerto y 300 han resultado heridas en bangladesh en medio de los enfrentamientos que se han registrado en el país luego de las elecciones parlamentarias celebradas este domingo en el país asiático niños palestinos piden a onu ayuda para recuperar balón en territorio ocupado por israel un grupo de niños palestinos de la localidad cisjordana de kafr sur envió una carta a la organización de las naciones unidas ( onu ) , mediante la cual piden ayuda para recuperar su pelota de fútbol que cayó accidentalmente a los territorios palestinos ocupados por israel 20 cuerpos de desaparecidos durante la dictadura argentina fueron identificados en 2013 durante 2013 fueron identificados 20 cuerpos de personas detenidas y desaparecidas , víctimas de la represión durante la dictadura cívico militar que vivió argentina entre 1976 y 1983 gobierno de sudán del sur y rebeldes inician negociaciones en etiopía phenom jordan spieth in a three-way tie for lead at kapalua kapalua notebook : jordan spieth ready for a new year , with new goals winnipeglawyers are good and bad but filing for litigation can take time & money 2 / .
if you are a a tourist and have a timeframe to leave then you must decide if the case is quick or drawn out .
you may be up for many court appearances or your lawyers and frustrated at the timeframes as these are slow. so always wait for any further payment to the lawyer in case of default .
7 / .
check from other foreigners or freinds about who is a good lawyer .
if you have time go on one of the forums and ask .
useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya tourist more handy tips ] [ pattaya best restaurants & buffets ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines dultuh mn 55805-1897palazzese earns second straight shutout in 2-0 win ray radlich was among the volunteers at new life evangelistic center , a st. louis homeless shelter , who was braving the cold as part of search teams that seek out the homeless and get them to shelters .
in western kentucky , smithland farmer david nickell moved extra hay to the field and his animals out of the wind .
he 'd also stocked up on batteries and gas and loaded up the pantry and freezer .
the 2009 ice storm that paralyzed the state and knocked out power to hundreds of thousands of people is fresh in his mind .
what is the state of the state ?
today we as a people are at an incredible moment in our state 's history , and we are ready to write the next great chapter.my remarks today will be presented around two main themes : the first theme is " keep what 's working " and the second theme is " where do we go from here ? "
lt. governor dalrymple , thank you for your introduction .
and thank you for all you do for north dakota .
you and betsy are fantastic .
welcome to thewebpagefor thedepartmentof catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolate of the diocese ofduluth .
" the definitive aim of catechesis isto put people not only in touch but in communion , in intimacy , withjesus christ : only he can lead us to the love of the father in the spirit and make us share in the life of the trinity . "
( john paul ii , on catechesis in our time # 5 ) catechesis is not only for children .
it is for every human person god ever created , and will create .
the goal of catechesis is to put all people into intimate communion with jesus christ .
this means two things .
first , all catechesis is sacramental preparation .
in the eucharist we receive jesus christ , fully god and fully man , body , blood , soul and divinity .
there can be no more intimate communion with christ this side of the grave .
second , the definitive aim of catechesis is to lead people to a life of holiness in order to live in the midst of the life-giving love of the trinity for all eternity .
yes , the goal of catechesis is to be a saint .
all human persons have a right to all that god intends , and thedepartment of catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolateis dedicated to forming catechetical leaders and catechists in this mission .
catechist prayeryou , o god , are my strength , my patience , my light and my councel .
it is you who make responsive to me the students confided to my care .
abandon me not to myself for one moment .
for my own conduct and for that of my students , grant me the spirit of wisdom and understanding , the spirit of knowledge and piety , the spirit of holy fear of you , and an ardent zeal to procure your glory .
i unite my effortsto those of jesus christ , the master teacher , andi beg the most blessed virgin , st. joseph and pope st. pius x , to assist me in the exercise of my teaching ministry .
amen . diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota click here for a referral form to accompany you application robert kuttner is co-founder and co-editor of the american prospect the squandering of america , exploring the political roots of america 's hillman journalism award .
bob has just begun work on a new book on revive the politics and economics of harnessing capitalism to serve a two words that strike fear into the hearts of insurers are adverse selection .
that 's insurance-speak for the tendency of the sickest people to gravitate to the most generous insurance policies .
the flipside is that young and healthy people , whose premiums are needed to subsidize the care of the sick , tend ...
do you think the damage from the pending bankruptcy of the city of detroit will be limited to detroit ?
think again .
detroit is partly the victim of economic trends far beyond its control , the downsizing and outsourcing of the auto industry and the collapse of the sub-prime bubble , to name ...
a letter from the gop to itself : why we will come out ahead health reform 's day in court : don 't bet the farm on the mandate même son propre camp ne le comprend plus , tellement il brille par un déficit criant de communication et une passivité propre à un octogénaire .
c 'est l 'extérieur , entendez ceux qui le maintiennent là où il est qui doivent le tenez !
après la défaite cuisante du m23 , les autres groupes rebelles se sont défaits et rendus en masse .
ces ex-rebelles , jusqu 'aujourd 'hui , ne sont pas pris en charge par le gouvernement de kabila .
il n 'existe aucun plan prévu pour leur démobilisation et réinsertion dans la vie sociale .
si les dispositions ne sont pas prises à temps , ils reprendront inévitablement le chemin de la brousse pour d 'autres rebellions .
c 'est monsieur kobler , le chef de la monusco qui vient rappeler au gouvernement de prendre des dispositions pour encadrer ces gens .
l 'opinion se rappellera que , quelque temps après sa prise des fonctions , parlant de la sécurité nationale , monsieur kobler a rappelé que c 'était à la rdc premièrement d 'assurer la sécurité des hommes et de leurs biens sur toute l 'étendue du territoire national .
ce qui revient à dire que si insécurité , il y a , c 'est que le gouvernement ne joue pas son rôle !
et qui est le chef du le 23 octobre dernier , monsieur kabila annonce la composition d 'un nationales .
jusqu 'aujourd 'hui , le dit gouvernement se fait attendre .
pour lui , conditionnait le financement de la construction d 'inga iii aux reformes politiques en rdc .
par ailleurs , plusieurs résolutions dont fameuse résolution 2098 d 'addis-abeba insistent sur ces reformes que doit entreprendre kabila pour désamorcer la crise issue des élections de 2011 .
le roi fainéant dort toujours .
on se rappellera qu 'après la débandade du m23 , c 'étaient messieurs paluku , gouverneur du nord-kivu et kobler de la monusco qui s 'étaient rendus dans les zones libérées pour consoler la population et faire un état des lieux .
monsieur kabila , " commandant suprême " s 'y est rendu un mois plus tard !
qui dirige la rdc ?
le 13 décembre dernier , kabila s 'est rendu dans le kasai oriental pour une " visite d 'inspection " .
un cahier de charge l 'attendait avec des promesses non tenues faites lors de sa campagne électorale de 2011 .
nous ne serons pas étonnés d 'apprendre qu 'il se rendra dans le kasai occidental pour le suivi des travaux vous avez dit que le congo est à la dérive ?
le roi fainéant très narcissique dort et prend ses rêves pour des réalités .
" je leur ai donné les cinq chantiers du président , la révolution de la modernité , etc .
que veulent-ils encore de moi ?
for the first time in history , barristers are to stage a boycott today in a protest against the slashing of legal aid fees .
a grieving woman has told of her heartache as she battles to carry on after her ' happy-go-lucky ' partner died in a crash .
spiralling rail fares are coming under the spotlight today with the launch of a petition in the county calling for a cap on prices .
a cyclist found lying in the road has been airlifted to hospital .
this is the scene in ashford when a man badly injured in a crash was airlifted to hospital dos horas más con fidelacompañado de su sonriente esposa dalia soto del valle , fidel me esperaba a la entrada del salón de su casa .
lo abracé con emoción .
se le veía en estupenda forma .
con ... 2013 : un balance provisorio hecha esta necesaria salvedad metodológica previa digamos que el acontecimiento más trascendente que marca con tristeza el año que finaliza fue la muerte del comandante ... diálogoes la palabra más común de estos días , tras la positiva reunión de nuestro presidente nicolás maduro con los gobernadores , alcaldes y alcaldesas de los partidos de ...
fidel castro : mandela ha muerto ¿ por qué ocultar la verdad sobre el apartheid ?
ningún acontecimiento presente o pasado que yo recuerde o haya oído mencionar , como la muerte de mandela , impactó tanto a la opinión pública mundial ; y no por sus riquezas , sino por la calidad humana y la nobleza de sus sentimientos e ideas el campo opositor se estremece , si quieren ver la radiografía de una derrota y el pronóstico de un desenlace fatal en la mud , lean la entrevista , publicada en la prensa de hoy , del derrotado jefe de campaña opositor .
no tiene desperdicio .
la derrota es en toda la línea como es el mismo exponente el que nos dice por un lado que comenzó el ocaso de la doctrina monroe pero al mismo tiempo meses atrás fue su máximo defensor , habría que aplicarla la " filosofía " de ni uno ni lo otros , sino todo lo contrario los últimos eventos eleccionarios en chile , honduras y venezuela nos han mantenido ocupados en el análisis de sus resultados , las perspectivas y consecuencias que de ellos se derivan 17 haitians dead as migrant boat capsizes off turks and caicos 18 haitians die after boat capsizes off turks and caicos no takers yet on battin office space mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 17 am est santa visits the billings clinic pediactric unit tue dec 17 , 2013 3 : 17 pm est what are those ?
new cabs set to hit the streets of billings mon dec 16 , 2013 7 : 17 pm est tips on how to stick with new years resolutions sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 17 am est krauss ready for third term sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 17 am est pro skier to host womens clinic mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 17 am est suspects in car thefts at ryo sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 17 am est pony matmen anxious to get back at it thu jan 2 , 2014 5 : 17 pm est new provost chosen for msu-northern thu jan 2 , 2014 5 : 17 pm est no comment on condition of butte robbery suspect run over by police car during standoff sun jan 5 , 2014 09 : 17 am est snowboarders chase moose down ski run sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 17 pm est restaurant embezzler enters alford plea sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 17 pm est man pleads guilty to selling drugs at bar sat jan 4 , 2014 11 : 17 pm est missoula rethinking anti-panhandling ordinance sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 17 pm est german goulash soup sun jan 5 , 2014 03 : 17 am est comedies kick off new year of missoula community theatre mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 17 am est snowmobiler killed in avalanche fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 17 pm est 17 ways being a new yorker prepares you for the apocalypsegetty this is your brain on moneymichael blann via getty images so this is what happens when you wear a bow tie twitter / idriselba " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . tajikistan | reliefweb a primera vista , fatima aparentaba tener unos 4 o 5 meses .
pero , en realidad , acababa de cumplir su primer año de vida .
estaba entre los 126.000 niños con desnutrición aguda grave tratados en uno de los 425 centros nutricionales establecidos por el ministerio de salud de chad en 2012 como parte de la expansión de la atención en todo el sahel .
se llegó a cientos de miles de niños con la atención necesaria para salvar sus vidas .
tristemente , no se pudo llegar a otros muchos . * * il faut 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. maintenant pour les enfants qui vivent dans des situations de crise humanitaire , affirme l ’ unicef * * the impact of landmines and explosive remnants of war in countries or territories the resilience of countries and communities living on the edge not only le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » a lancé un appel de 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. pour répondre à des crises humanitaires de plus en plus graves .
le rapport sur l ' « action humanitaire pour les enfants 2011 » insiste sur la nécessité d 'aider les communautés vulnérables à se préparer contre les catastrophes avant qu 'elles ne se all the support and assistance provided to reduce suffering of the population as you all know , as a result of an earthquake in political and socio-economic terms , in its geography , demography and and the current planning process has led to a large increase in the number for $ 1,456,894 to support the government of tajikistan in its efforts to of hunger and malnutrition is on the increase across the developing world , downturn is exacerbating the impact of the food crisis and increasing food and scaling up its services to assist the most vulnerable people in the needs and national context , and the current planning process has led to kent gardeners are obsessed by the seasons but in the florida keys , there ’ s colour all-year round the keys are all about the sea and sun so it is not surprising its gardens get overlooked .
lesley bellew took a 150-mile trip from miami to key west .
this week our gardening expert lucy hewett is wrapped up warmly tidying up her garden before the hard frosts arrive lesley bellew visits one of the world ’ s oldest arboretums , in dubrovnik , which has survived earthquakes , the bora winds , war and forest fires order seeds now to be sown in january or february as you may use cloches to protect alpines from damage by winter cold and avoid walking on lawns or pruning fruit trees if covered by dig up chicory roots , pot up and cover to force chicons to enrich soil with compost where beans are to be grown .
brussels — before we dive into next year ’ s list of conflicts to watch , some thoughts on the year we are about to conclude are in order .
in short , 2013 was not a good year for our collective ability to prevent or end conflict .
at school , he was a bright student and was only 16 years old when he started at the university of sydney .
this new frontier had mawson in its spell and he knew he had to return .
mawson was near death - his feet were bloody , his skin was falling away and he had lost a lot of weight .
for the rest of his life sir douglas worked as professor of geology at the university of adelaide and was involved in forestry , farming and the conservation of the unique wildlife in our oceans .
it is easier to be anonymous than it is to be a highly involved student on campus .
but for others , after the business of frosh week dies down , after you discover you do not and never will possess the skills to be a varsity athlete , after you don ’ t need to ask anyone how to get to tsh 120 , it is a lot easier to become anonymous .
but being anonymous makes it easier to struggle , and not think you need to reach out .
it makes it easier to drown in your schoolwork and never bother to ask for help .
it is an easy life to get used to , but it is in no way the most appealing .
go out to an event , a club , a meeting .
tell someone if you hate the idea of being alone .
if you are an introvert like me , the idea of it can be quite exasperating .
it ’ s a big place , but being anonymous is no way to fill your spot .
i find it absolutely hilarious that this is included in the life of an & # 8220 ; anon & # 8221 ; . things are a lot harder than they seem for anon now that the msu-hsr contract is up for renegotiation before renewal , i hope to see some changes .
graduate rentention in a city notorious for appearing heavily unattractive to prospective mcmaster students , and for those students then staying within the “ campus bubble ” while at school , is an important issue for the city to address .
what was his offense ?
he collaborated in growing marijuana plants .
what was he doing when he died ?
vomiting .
the vomiting hit him while in his bathtub , and he choked to death .
another police source told the herald : " you 'd be surprised at how easily this can happen .
an informant can tell you it is the apartment on the left at the top of the stairs and there could be two apartments on the left at the top of the stairs . . .
you are supposed to verify it , and i 'm not making excuses , but mistakes can be made . "
in 2002 , moises sepulveda pleaded guilty to a charge of using a telephone to distribute marijuana .
he was sentenced to probation . < br > aylmer minor hockey tykes goalie mathew worrall smothered a shot by belmont minor hockey tykes player lexie bertelsen during a game at east elgin community complex , sunday , dec .
5 .
host aylmer ended up on top at the end of the game , 6-4 .
( ae / rob perry ) what information does ibd collect from you and how is it used ?
registrationproducts and services requiring paymenthow we gather information from youcookiesweb beaconssharinglegal disclaimeraggregate informationthird parties may receive or collect information through ibdibd forumscommunication via emailsubscribing to and unsubscribing from emailsupplementation of information with affiliatessite and service updatessecurityphishingcorrection / updating personal informationpersonal information you disclosechildrenchanges to our privacy policy web beacons , also called web bugs and clear gifs are used in combination with cookies to help us understand the behavior of our customers .
a web beacon is typically a transparent graphic image that is placed on our site or in an email .
the use of a web beacon allows ibd to record the simple actions of the user opening the page that contains the beacon .
this privacy policy covers the use of cookies by ibd and its affiliates only and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers orthird party partners who help us serve ads ..
if you have any questions about the security at our web site , you can contact us at www.askibd.com.
the word " user ( s ) " means any person ( also referred to as " you " or " yours " ) visiting investors.com or holding subscription ( s ) to or trial ( s ) of any ibd product .
all trademarks used herein are the exclusive property of their respective trademark owners and may not be used in any way without written consent of owner .
you may use the content online and solely for your personal , non-commercial use , and you may download or print a single copy of any portion of the content for your personal , non-commercial use , provided you do not remove any trademark , copyright or other notice contained in such content .
no other use is permitted .
you may not , for example , republish the content on any internet , intranet or extranet site or incorporate the content in any database , compilation , archive or cache .
you may not distribute any of the content to others , whether or not for payment or other consideration , and you may not modify , copy , frame , reproduce , sell , publish , transmit , display or otherwise use any portion of the content without the written consent of ibd .
for information on requests to use of the content for any purpose other than as permitted in this paragraph , please see licensing .
mail orders : if you order a paid subscription to any of our services by mailing in an order coupon to ibd , your subscription will lapse at the end of the subscription term and will not automatically renew unless you have affirmatively checked the box indicating auto-renew on the order coupon .
in the event you checked the auto-renew option , your subscription will continue until terminated by ibd or until you notify ibd of your cancellation .
you may cancel your subscription at any time .
for details , refer to our cancellation policy and our refund policy .
by submitting a username and password on any ibd online community and / or forum registration page , you agree to be bound by the investors.comterms of useas well as thesupplemental termsset forth herein ( collectively " terms of use " ) . & # 149 ; create liability for use or cause us to lose the services of our isps or other suppliers .
clear channel broadcasting , inc .
( " clear channel " , " nosotros " , " nos " o " nuestro " ) se compromete a mantener su confianza y seguridad en lo que respecta a la privacidad de su información .
por favor , lea a continuación y aprenda cómo recopilamos , protegemos , compartimos y utilizamos su información como parte de nuestras plataformas tecnológicas , incluyendo , sin limitación , nuestros sitios web , páginas web , características interactivas , aplicaciones , páginas de twitter y facebook y aplicaciones para móviles ( " plataformas " ) .
6 .
publicidad y segmentación por comportamiento , cómo cancelar esta opción .
10 .
consentimiento para el tratamiento y la transferencia de información .
nosotros podemos recopilar información personal ( información que se puede utilizar para identificarlo como una persona ) , como su nombre , correo electrónico , número de teléfono , dirección , información demográfica ( como código postal , edad ) , o la información de pago ( como número cuenta o de tarjeta de crédito ) .
los tipos de información personal que recopilamos pueden variar dependiendo del uso de las características de las plataformas .
por ejemplo , nosotros recopilamos su número de tarjeta de crédito y la información de pago relacionada con la compra de productos y / o servicios a través de las plataformas .
nosotros publicamos testimonios de clientes y testimonios en video en nuestras plataformas que pueden contener información personal identificable .
si queremos publicar el nombre del cliente , junto con su testimonio , nosotros primero obtenemos el consentimiento del cliente por correo electrónico antes de publicar el testimonio .
información del uso .
cada vez que usted visita o interactúa con las plataformas , nosotros , al igual que los anunciantes de terceros y / o proveedores de servicios , podemos utilizar una variedad de tecnologías que de forma automática o pasiva recopila información acerca de cómo las plataformas se acceden y se utilizan ( " información del uso " ) .
la información del uso puede incluir el tipo de navegador , tipo de dispositivo , sistema operativo , versión de la aplicación , la página generada , la hora , las páginas vistas anteriores , y el uso de las características o aplicaciones en las plataformas , como historial de canciones , interacción con amigos y actividades en grupo .
esta información nos ayuda a mantener nuestras plataformas actualizadas e interesantes para nuestros visitantes y nos permite adaptar el contenido a los intereses del visitante .
identificador de dispositivo .
nosotros recopilamos automáticamente su dirección ip u otro identificador único ( " identificador de dispositivo " ) para el dispositivo ( computadora , teléfono móvil , tableta u otro dispositivo ) que usted utiliza para tener acceso a las plataformas .
un identificador de dispositivo es un número que se asigna a su dispositivo cuando accede a un sitio web o a sus servidores , y nuestras computadoras identifican su dispositivo por el identificador de dispositivo .
nosotros podemos utilizar un identificador de dispositivo , entre otras cosas , administrar las plataformas , ayudar a diagnosticar problemas con nuestros servidores , analizar tendencias , seguir los movimientos de los usuarios de la página web , ayudar a identificarlo a usted y a su carrito de compras y para recopilar la amplia información demográfica para el uso agregado .
" cookies " , etiquetas de píxel .
las tecnologías utilizadas en las plataformas para recopilar información del uso , incluyendo identificadores de dispositivos , incluyen pero no se limitan a : " cookies " ( archivos de datos localizados en un dispositivo que se utiliza para visitar las plataformas ) , análisis de software para móviles y etiquetas de píxel ( imágenes gráficas transparentes , a veces llamadas balizas web ( web beacon ) o balizas de seguimiento ( tracking beacon ) , colocadas en una página web o en un correo electrónico , lo que indica que se ha visto una página o correo electrónico ) .
las " cookies " también pueden utilizarse para asociarlo con los sitios de redes sociales como facebook y twitter y , si así lo desea , permite la interacción entre las actividades de las plataformas y sus actividades en estos sitios de redes sociales para que nosotros o nuestros proveedores , podamos colocar " cookies " o archivos similares en su dispositivo por motivos de seguridad , para facilitar la navegación por el sitio y para personalizar su experiencia durante su visita a nuestras plataformas ( por ejemplo , lo que nos permite seleccionar qué anuncios u ofertas tienen más probabilidades de interesarle a usted , basándonos en sus intereses , preferencias , localización , o información demográfica ) .
una etiqueta de píxel puede informarle a su navegador que obtenga el contenido de otro servidor .
para aprender cómo puede reducir el número de " cookies " que recibe de nosotros , o eliminar las " cookies " que ya se hayan instalado en el archivo de " cookies " de su navegador , por favor , consulte el menú de ayuda de su navegador u otras instrucciones relacionadas con su navegador .
si decide desactivar o rechazar la recepción de " cookies " , tenga en cuenta que algunas características y servicios en nuestras plataformas no podrán funcionar correctamente porque no podríamos reconocerlo y asociarlo con su cuenta ( s ) de clear channel .
además , las ofertas que ofrecemos cuando usted nos visite podrían no presentarse como relevantes para usted o a la medida de sus intereses .
nosotros utilizamos la información que recopilamos de usted y acerca de usted para varios propósitos comerciales como para responder a sus preguntas y peticiones ; así como proporcionar acceso a ciertas áreas y características de las plataformas como sus estaciones de radio favoritas , sus preferencias musicales , canciones que ha escuchado , listas de reproducción compartidas y su interacción con otros usuarios , verificar su identidad , comunicarnos con usted acerca de su cuenta y actividades en las plataformas y , a nuestra discreción , comunicarle cambios en cualquier política de clear channel ; adaptar el contenido , los anuncios y ofertas que le brindamos a usted , mejorar las plataformas ; cumplir con las obligaciones de la licencia , y para los propósitos establecidos en el momento de proporcionar su información personal o cualquier otro tipo de objetivo con su consentimiento .
nosotros podemos recopilar información de localización de usted para ofrecerle las estaciones de radio en su área y para adaptar los anuncios y ofertas que le brindamos a usted .
excepto como se describe aquí , nosotros no proporcionaremos ninguna de su información personal a terceros sin su consentimiento específico .
nosotros podemos compartir información no personal , como datos agregados e información del uso de la información con terceros .
nosotros también podemos compartir su información , según lo divulgado cuando usted nos la proporcionó , según lo establecido en este aviso de privacidad y en las siguientes circunstancias : terceros que prestan servicios en nuestro nombre . nosotros podemos compartir su información personal con terceros que realizan funciones en nuestro nombre ( o en nombre de nuestros socios ) como los proveedores de servicios que albergan u operan nuestras plataformas , analizan datos , procesan transacciones y pagos , realizan pedidos o proporcionan servicio al cliente , anunciantes , patrocinadores u otros terceros que participan o administran nuestras promociones , concursos , sorteos , encuestas o proporcionan asistencia de comercialización o de promoción y " manejados por " socios o colaboradores en sitios de marca compartida .
su información personal también puede ser utilizada por nosotros o compartida con nuestras subsidiarias , empresas afiliadas , patrocinadores , socios , anunciantes u otros terceros para ofrecerle información sobre productos y ofertas promocionales y otras ofertas .
la aceptación de que su información personal sea compartida . mientras se encuentre en nuestras plataformas , usted tiene la oportunidad de optar por recibir información y ofertas de comercialización de otra persona , o de aceptar compartir su información con terceros , incluyendo sitios de redes sociales como facebook o twitter .
si usted acepta que su información personal sea compartida , su información personal será divulgada a terceros y la información personal que usted divulgue estará sujeta a la política de privacidad y prácticas comerciales de ese tercero .
transferencias de empresas . nosotros podemos compartir su información personal con otras entidades y nuestras empresas afiliadas principalmente para propósitos comerciales y operacionales .
en el caso de que clear channel esté involucrado en una quiebra , fusión , adquisición , reorganización o venta de activos , su información puede ser vendida o transferida como parte de esa transacción .
divulgación legal . nosotros podemos transferir y divulgar su información a terceros para cumplir con una obligación legal , cuando creamos de buena fe que la ley o una autoridad gubernamental necesita verificar o hacer cumplir nuestras condiciones de uso u otras políticas aplicables , para abordar el fraude , problemas de seguridad o técnicos , para responder a una emergencia , o para proteger nuestros derechos o propiedad o la seguridad de terceros , los visitantes de nuestras plataformas o del público .
nosotros podemos recibir información sobre usted de terceros .
por ejemplo , si usted está en otro sitio web y usted opta por recibir información de clear channel , ese sitio web nos puede enviar su dirección de correo electrónico y otra información sobre usted para que podamos comunicarnos con usted con lo solicitado .
usted también puede participar en una aplicación o característica de terceros ( por ejemplo , en una de nuestras aplicaciones de facebook o twitter o una aplicación o característica similar en un sitio web de terceros ) a través de la cual usted nos autoriza recopilar ( o el tercero para compartir ) información sobre usted , incluyendo información del uso y la información personal , como la lista de sus amigos , " me gusta " , comentarios que ha compartido , grupos y la localización .
los servicios como facebook connect le darán la opción de publicar información sobre sus actividades en nuestra plataforma en su página de perfil para compartir con otras personas dentro de su red .
además , podemos recibir información sobre usted si otros usuarios de un sitio web de terceros nos dan acceso a su perfil y a una de sus " conexiones " o a la información acerca de usted que sea accesible a través de sus " conexiones " " de la página web , página de perfil o una página similar en una red social o sitio web de un tercero o de servicios interactivos .
nosotros podemos complementar la información que recopilamos sobre usted a través de las plataformas con esta información de terceros con el propósito de mejorar nuestra capacidad para servirle , para adaptar nuestros contenidos a usted y / o para ofrecerle la oportunidad de comprar productos o servicios que creemos que pueden ser de interés para usted .
usted siempre puede indicarnos que no compartamos su información personal con terceros ( distintos de nuestros proveedores de servicios ) , a no utilizar su información personal para proporcionarle información u ofertas , o no enviarle boletines de noticias , correos electrónicos u otras comunicaciones : ( i ) modificando la información de usuario registrada en las plataformas , ( ii ) enviando un correo electrónico a privacy @ iheartradio.com , ( iii ) comunicándose con nosotros por correo electrónico a servicio al cliente digital de clear channel , 200 e. basse road , san antonio , tx 78209 o ( iv ) siguiendo las instrucciones de eliminación en la comunicación que recibe .
su solicitud para cancelar esta opción será procesada dentro de los 30 días siguientes a la fecha en que la recibamos .
si desea modificar , verificar , corregir o eliminar su información personal recopilada a través de las plataformas , usted puede editar la información de usuario registrada o comunicarse con nosotros en la dirección antes mencionada o por correo electrónico .
según nuestra rutina de mantenimiento de registros , podemos eliminar ciertos registros que contengan información personal que haya enviado a través de las plataformas .
no estamos bajo ninguna obligación de almacenar información personal por tiempo indefinido y no asumimos ninguna responsabilidad que surja o que se relacione con la destrucción de esta información personal .
puede que no siempre se pueda eliminar por completo o borrar toda su información de nuestras bases de datos sin algunos datos residuales debido a las copias de seguridad y por otras razones .
nosotros conservaremos su información ( incluyendo datos de localización geográfica ) durante el tiempo que su cuenta esté activa o cuando sea necesario para proporcionarle los servicios .
si usted desea cancelar su cuenta o nos pide que ya no usemos su información para proporcionarle servicios , comuníquese con nosotros en privacy @ iheartradio.com.
nosotros conservaremos y utilizaremos su información cuando sea necesario para cumplir con nuestras obligaciones legales , resolver disputas y hacer cumplir nuestros acuerdos .
nosotros no controlamos ciertos ajustes y preferencias de privacidad que mantienen nuestros socios de los medios sociales como facebook y twitter .
si desea realizar cambios en los ajustes y preferencias , puede hacerlo visitando la página de configuración de la página correspondiente de los medios de comunicación sociales .
nosotros podemos utilizar proveedores de redes de publicidad de terceros para ayudar a poner anuncios en las plataformas , así como otros proveedores de servicios para evaluar y que nos proporcionen información sobre el uso de las plataformas y la visualización de nuestro contenido .
nosotros no compartimos información personal con estos proveedores ( a menos que , por supuesto , usted nos dé permiso ) .
estos proveedores pueden colocar y tener acceso a " cookies " , etiquetas de píxel o tecnologías similares en el dispositivo para que la publicación de anuncios u otro contenido personalizado a sus intereses lo que ellos obtienen de su navegación por las plataformas y otros lugares que ha visitado .
de este modo , el proveedor recopila o tiene acceso a información no personal , como su información del uso .
el uso de " cookies " , etiquetas de píxel o tecnologías similares por parte de estos proveedores está sujeto a sus propias políticas de privacidad , no a las nuestras .
si no desea recibir los beneficios de la publicidad dirigida , usted puede cancelar esta opción de algunos programas de publicidad de la red que utilizan su información visitando la pagina de opción de exclusión voluntaria de nai en http : / / www.networkadvertising.org / managing / opt _ out.asp.
tenga en cuenta que aunque usted decida quitar su información ( cancelar esta opción ) , usted seguirá viendo anuncios cuando esté navegando en línea .
sin embargo , los anuncios que usted ve pueden ser menos relevantes para usted y a sus intereses .
además , muchos programas de publicidad de la red le permiten ver y administrar las categorías de interés que hayan recopilado desde sus actividades de navegación en línea .
estas categorías de interés ayudarán a determinar el tipo de publicidad específica que puede recibir .
la pagina de opción de exclusión voluntaria es una herramienta que identifica a las empresas asociadas que tienen las " cookies " en su navegador y proporciona un mecanismo para optar por no recibir " cookies " de esas compañías .
nosotros recopilamos , usamos o divulgamos información de identificación personal , sin saberlo , de cualquier persona menor de 13 años de edad .
si determinamos al momento de la recopilación que un usuario es menor de esta edad , no vamos a utilizar o mantener la información personal sin el consentimiento del padre o tutor .
si nos damos cuenta de que hemos recopilado , sin saberlo , información personal de un niño menor de 13 años , haremos todos los esfuerzos razonables para borrar esta información de nuestros registros .
nosotros tomamos muy en serio la seguridad de la información , sin embargo , ninguna transmisión electrónica de datos o almacenamiento de información se puede garantizar que sea 100 % segura .
tenga en cuenta que no podemos asegurar o garantizar la seguridad de ninguna información que usted nos transmita , y que utiliza en las plataformas y que nos proporcione con su información bajo su propio riesgo .
las plataformas pueden contener enlaces a otros sitios que no son de nosotros y que no operamos .
esto incluye enlaces de anunciantes , patrocinadores y / o socios que pueden utilizar nuestros logotipos como parte de un acuerdo de marca compartida o comercialización compartida .
nosotros no controlamos , recomendamos ni respaldamos así como tampoco somos responsables de estos sitios ni de su contenido , productos , servicios o políticas o prácticas de privacidad .
estos otros sitios pueden enviar sus propias " cookies " a su dispositivo , en forma independiente pueden recopilar datos o solicitar información personal y pueden o no tener publicadas sus propias políticas de privacidad .
usted también en forma independiente debe evaluar la autenticidad de cualquier sitio que parece o afirma que es una de nuestras plataformas ( incluyendo las relacionadas con una página de redes sociales o correo electrónico ) .
las plataformas pueden hacer disponibles las salas de chat , foros , tableros de mensajes y grupos de noticias .
recuerde que cualquier información que usted revele en estas áreas se convierte en información pública y no está sujeta a las disposiciones de este aviso de privacidad .
las plataformas se rigen y se operan de acuerdo con las leyes de los estados unidos , y están destinadas para que los residentes de los estados unidos las disfruten .
clear channel no hace ninguna representación que las plataformas se regirán o se utilizarán de acuerdo con las leyes de cualquier otra nación .
dado que somos una empresa internacional , nuestro uso de su información implica necesariamente la transmisión de datos a nivel internacional .
si usted se encuentra en la unión europea , canadá o en otro lugar fuera de los estados unidos , por favor tenga en cuenta que la información que recopilamos puede ser transferida y procesada en los estados unidos .
al usar las plataformas , o darnos cualquier información , usted ( a ) acepta que las plataformas están sujetas a las leyes de los estados unidos , ( b ) da su consentimiento para la recopilación , procesamiento , mantenimiento y transferencia de esta información y a los estados unidos y a otros territorios aplicables en los que las leyes de privacidad pueden no ser tan completas o equivalentes a las del país donde usted reside o es un ciudadano , y ( c ) renuncia a cualquier reclamo que pueda surgir con esas leyes .
nosotros podemos actualizar este aviso de privacidad para reflejar los cambios a nuestras prácticas de información .
si hacemos algún cambio material se lo notificaremos por correo electrónico ( a la dirección de correo electrónico especificada en su cuenta ) o por medio de un aviso en nuestras plataformas antes de que entre el cambio en vigor .
nosotros le recomendamos que revise periódicamente esta página para obtener información actualizada sobre nuestras prácticas de privacidad .
si usted tiene alguna pregunta o inquietud sobre este aviso de privacidad , las prácticas de las plataformas , o sus experiencias con las plataformas , por favor comuníquese con nosotros en : president jakaya kikwete yesterday led hundreds of dar es salaam mourners in paying last respects to finance minister dr william augustao mgimwa ( 63 ) who died at kloof hospital in pretoria , south africa on wednesday last week .
members of the central committee of chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) were yesterday racking their heads for a position on the membership of two former central committee members dr. mourners receive dr mgimwa 's body , last respects at karimjee today thousands fail to complete std vii due to pregnancy , truancy - report launching the press in maruhubi , unguja yesterday , zanzibar president dr mohammed shein said the machine is one of the government ’ s achievements in ensuring advancement in printing its documents .
previously published on billmoyers.com if you want to see how grossly money can distort democracy , just go to the state of virginia , where there are no limits on how big a check can be written for statewide office .
groups and individuals from outside the old dominion are taking ...
watch : matt taibbi on our blind eye to shockingly bad behavior in paul ryan , the right at last has their man you can use special software to " subscribe " to individual programs so that to listen to one or more wsj podcasts feeds in your button and select " copy shortcut " or " copy link location " to copy wherever it asks for the location of the rss service or podcast you wish to subscribe to .
to see the archive of programs for a particular podcast in itunes , 70jareon road amphoe su ngai go lok changwat narathiwas 96120 0-7361-1231 s _ sungaikolok @ immigration.go.th a three day christmas tree festival held at st edburgs church in bicester last weekend was a resounding success .
cover story : moving up the risk curve ~ gentleman pig farmer ~ mad max watches ~ schwarzman 's scholars ~ wearable history ~ spa vs. spa ~ the flying mansion ~ my lambo lap ~ hollywood 's banker ~ protect ipo windfalls with a trust ~ more states lower taxes ~ trend spotting : the latest fashions and passions .
why 2014 won 't be the year for new immigration lawsbuzzfeedschumer : house speaker boehner may move on immigration reformabout - news & issues - by dan moffettsee realtime coveragesee all 5 sourcesrelated john boehner it 's time to let immigrants step out of the shadows banjul , gambia : gambian president yahya jammeh has lifted a ban on one of the country ’ s leading newspapers and a radio station “ as a goodwill gesture for the new year ” , according to his office . ( 1 / 1 / 2014 8 : 03 : 41 am ) jpmorgan expected to pay $ 2b for role in madoff case jpmorgan chase nears a $ 2 billion deal in a case tied to madoff rc wants all who passed std vii exams to join form one na lusekelo philemon outside the entrance of his apartment building khamroev noticed an unfamiliar man on the playground nearby , who started speaking on his cellphone when khamroev approached .
entering the building , khamroev noticed a second unknown man standing on the stairwell by the mailboxes between the first and second floors .
khamroev waited for the lift to arrive to take him up to his 5th floor apartment , but instead a man came out of the lift and hit him in the face with brass knuckles .
khamroev fell to the floor , the man continued to hit him and kick him , while the man on the stairwell descended and sprayed him in the face with tear gas .
the assailants then left , stealing nothing .
khamroev managed to reach his apartment on his own , from where his wife was able to help him to the hospital .
the nhc suspects that the june 6th organized attack on khamroev is connected to his involvement in the case of yusup khasymakhunov , a citizen of uzbekistan who was arrested in russia in 2004 , and the first to be charged with membership of the organization hizb-ut-tahrir in the russian federation .
source bruce sheppard nz in stirring the pot | 2 : 27 pm 19 august 2008 1 .
how secure is my income between now and when i retire ?
so here is a list of questions for any potential adviser .
1 .
what are the fixed costs , how do you charge for your time ? 2 .
if you invest in managed funds what are the costs structures of each and what if any commissions do you receive ? • now here is the biggie .
i am yet to meet a financial planner who eats his own porridge .
he expects you to put all your money with him and buy a portfolio of managed funds .
ask the planner you are talking to what he is doing with his money ?
if you are lucky they might have some of their money in their own product , if so ask to see their personal investment reports for as long as they have been involved in the industry .
if on their own money they have not done well , then i guess you can assume they won ’ t do well for you either .
now of course he might say to you well i am new in this game , and i am still paying off my home and i have nothing to invest .
they have to start somewhere but before you appoint them ask to meet the senior planner in the firm , there will be one , and ask to see what he does .
ask to see his whole balance sheet , how much has he got in the firm ’ s products relative to his total portfolio , how has his portfolio performed , has he been taking money out and putting it in , has he been trying to guess timing , find out how this guy got to the top of the tree .
again i have to tell you that mostly even the successful ones do not invest in the stuff they are trying to sell you , or if they do it is very minor and what is more they do try to guess timing .
what you are looking for is someone who does for himself what he wants to do for you , and can demonstrate with his own affairs that it works .
francesco corallo acquitted - he was ambassador of the republic of dominica at fao francesco corallo was ambassador of the republic of dominica at the fao .
according to court documents , this was determined by the magistrate of the court of rome , who fully acquitted francesco corallo because he did not make false statements on his " personal qualities " during the raid ordered by milan prosecutors as part of investigation of the loans granted by the bpm at b plus for francesco ... ( 12 / 24 / 2013 1 : 29 : 29 pm ) to find faqs or tax & legal information about vehicle donations , go to the cartalk vehicle donation program website .
yes , kansas is a special place - and it is our home .
when i started as governor , we had the highest state income tax in the region , now we have the 2nd lowest and i want us to take it to zero . look out texas , here comes kansas !
although the current drought is harsh , our reservoirs and aquifers continue to give us the water we need . but now they need attention .
several of our reservoirs and many of our lakes need dredging from siltation . the ogallala aquifer needs local action to reduce its use and save some of it for future generations .
a key to a child 's success is the ability to read .
it 's never easy being a mom or a dad .
but it gets even harder if one or both parents are not able to get a decent job .
our road map for kansas is focused on the economic growth of our state so employment can expand and families can prosper .
we are the air capital of the world .
our aircraft industry is back on the ascent -and southwest airlines is soon to land in wichita .
we are the nation 's breadbasket and its meat counter and are becoming its dairy section as well .
it funds a new crime lab and training facility for our state 's law enforcement on the campus of washburn university .
my administration has worked to restructure and reform state government to be more efficient and more effective . but there is a lot more we can do .
one of the clearest examples of duplication in state government is the fact that we have two highway departments : the kansas department of transportation and the kansas turnpike authority .
the " power of the purse " is the primary power of the legislature , not the executive or the judiciary .
and so i ask you to make it clear in law that defining what is " suitable provision " for public funding of education is a job for the people 's elected representatives – and no one else .
kansans expect and are entitled to a government that is not beholden to any special interest group .
others took up his work in the senate , but the loss was the departure of paul , a beautiful soul .
for me , my mentors have included our own kansas treasures---pat roberts and bob dole … i also learned a lot from senators pat moynihan , phil gramm , and ted kennedy .
and another person you can learn a lot from who has worked in the statehouse even longer than senator hensley is don wistuba .
don has operated the statehouse snack shop since 1976 .
he greets each day as a gift from god – and he truly is a gift of joy to the capitol .
don , would you please stand up and take a bow .
it is within our reach to see that our children can read .
it is within our reach to strengthen marriages and families .
it is within our reach to lead in job growth and energy independence .
it is within our reach to balance our budget and meet the needs of our people .
we have been placed here for a reason and our season is short .
let us build a better state and do it now .
thank you , may god bless you and may god continue to bless the state of kansas .
as we gather again to assess the state of our state , i want to welcome the new members of the house and senate and our new house leadership .
on behalf of all kansans , i thank yo but it doesn ’ t have to be .
the most important thing is to do your the big day in the most delicious way .
so , what will you be slicing there ’ ll be no shortage of vintage bridal gowns to choose from in kent ’ s boutiques this season , as designers pick up on a new love walker gives his top tips on how to pick the get me to the church on time and in style !
new delhi , jan 4 ( ians ) beginning a five-day visit to india jan 6 , bhutan 's king jigme khesar namgyel wangchuck and queen jetsun pema have been invited by president pranab mukherjee to stay at the renovated dwarka suite in the rashtrapati bhavan .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.smalltownpapers - the groesbeck journal , groesbeck texas is it ok to out someone ? | allison hope the question is an ethical one for sure , and is quite nuanced .
" doesn 't the media have an obligation to expose his hypocrisy ? "
hod wrote in the post .
" if he had done something so hypocritical and he wasn 't gay , wouldn 't we demand journalists do their job ? but they can 't ... because we won 't let them. you 're not allowed to out anyone , we tell them . "
do you want to take up one of the most exciting sports around – and get a great workout both physically and mentally ? adult beginners ' ...
sevenoaks u8 sent two squads – the lions and tigers – to play in the allianz cup at the home of saracens.the tigers played four ... agreement which is based on reciprocity , it added . ( end ) o criză cu viitor imprevizibil | cadran politic posted by dragoş tãbãran on apr 24th , 2003 / / comments off criza irakiana este extrem de complexa atât din perspectiva explicatiilor politice , economice sau militare , cât mai ales din cea a necunoscutelor legate de implicatiile regionale si chiar a undelor de soc la scara planetara .
al doilea conflict din golf & # 8211 ; daca este sa respectam conditiile oficiale , partea a doua a razboiului din 1991 & # 8211 ; a început în lipsa unei rezolutii a consiliului de securitate & # 8211 ; spun trei dintre cele cinci puteri cu statut de membru permanent & # 8211 ; sau în urma încalcarii de catre irak a rezolutiei 1441 si a documentelor anterioare care se refereau la oprirea programelor de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa .
primele victime ale acestei crize se numesc relatia transatlantica , nato , consiliul de securitate , parteneriatul ruso-american , relatiile de încredere care au functionat dupa disparitia sistemului international bipolar .
de ce tocmai irakul este centrul acestei neobisnuite provocari la adresa securitatii internationale în secolul al xxi-lea ?
un stat relativ tânar & # 8211 ; independenta a fost obtinuta abia în 1932 & # 8211 ; irakul se mândreste cu un trecut milenar .
într-adevar , daca egiptul a fost copilul nilului , irakul si istoria sa sunt rezultatul geografiei si , mai ales , al istoriei . resursele mesopotamiei au creat permanent surplusul de hrana necesar unei cresteri demografice exponentiale , factor de dezvoltare a numeroase civilizatii : ur , uruk , sumer , babilon , asiria etc .
au urmat califatul ummeyazilor , imperiul abasizilor , dar si ocupatia otomana , administratia britanica , regatul , republica , dictatura .
bogatia irakului a avut întotdeauna un caracter dublu : productiv si destructiv .
a generat state care nu si-au mai încaput în granite sau care au atras interesele imperiilor vecine .
în timpuri moderne , factorii economici s-au combinat cu cei ideologici si religiosi .
regimul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul evenimentelor politice din orientul mijlociu si a decolonizarii postbelice .
mesopotamia a redevenit în secolul al xx-lea ceea ce a fost în multe rânduri de-a lungul istoriei sale milenare : intersectia marilor câmpuri geopolitice .
nu întâmplator , irakul lui saddam hussein este rezultatul destramarii imperiului britanic & # 8211 ; un imperiu în care , ne amintim , soarele nu apunea niciodata & # 8211 ; si a aparitiei statului israel .
mecanismele politice si administrative inventate de britanici au ramas adânc în sistemul institutional irakian în ciuda loviturilor de stat si a asa-numitei revolutii baas socialiste , în fapt o încercare de control politic prin justificarea data de un socialism arab nationalist .
britanicii au manevrat clivajele profunde din interiorul societatii atât de fragmentate a irakului .
o societate dominata de conflicte etnice , economice , religioase , ideologice .
istoria contemporana a irakului este o încercare de a transforma acest haotic conglomerat într-o natiune .
din pacate , aceasta încercare a esuat într-o feroce dictatura .
britanicii au încercat sa controleze irakul prin încurajarea mecanismelor traditionale , tribale , bazate pe monopolul decizional al seicilor , si favorizarea unor institutii politice slabe .
mai mult , marea britanie a impus o monarhie straina & # 8211 ; hashemita & # 8211 ; a trasat frontiere artificiale & # 8211 ; care nu au nimic în comun cu harta etnica sau cu factorii geografici & # 8211 ; si a respins mereu miscarile nationaliste nascute în noile clase urbane .
irakul lui saddam s-a nascut din cele patru decenii , între 1918 si 1958 , din actiuni clandestine , subversive , urmate de violenta , lovituri de stat , reprimari si revolte kurde sau siite .
ajuns la putere , saddam hussein a utilizat petrolul pentru a demara ambitioase proiecte de dezvoltare . din nou , bogatia mesopotamiei si-a demonstrat caracterul dublu : productiv si destructiv .
exploatând aurul negru , saddam a dezvoltat industrii , a pus la punct proiecte moderne , de amploare , a construit , le-a dat irakienilor locuri de munca , educatie , sisteme medicale moderne , facilitati si gratuitati .
le-a dat prosperitate si ce si-au dorit mereu : o identitate nationala .
reversul medaliei a fost dictatura personala , un razboi sângeros cu iranul si o invazie a kuweitului pentru care si-a atras pedeapsa comunitatii internationale si un embargou catastrofal care a anulat tot ce s-a facut pâna în 1991 .
conflictul cu iranul si mai ales invadarea kuweitului au descoperit lumii o realitate multa vreme ignorata din ratiuni politice si , mai ales , economice : irakul , o tara cu urias potential , era condus de un dictator cu ambitii regionale , care avea programe de dezvoltare a armelor de distrugere în masa si care nu a ezitat sa le foloseasca împotriva tarilor vecine sau chiar a propriului popor .
occidentul dornic de petrol nascocise un nou hitler .
multi analisti au pus atacarea iranului pe seama unui sentiment al vulnerabilitatii .
saddam s-a temut ca ideile revolutiei fundamentaliste din iran se vor extinde în rândul populatiei siite irakiene .
o eventuala aliniere a siitilor la interesele politice ale iranului ayatolahilor ar fi lipsit irakul de petrolul sau & # 8211 ; mai toate câmpurile sunt în zone unde siitii sunt dominanti & # 8211 ; si în final ar fi distrus statul .
sprijinit de un occident care se temea si el de tendintele expansioniste ale revolutiei iraniene si care era extrem de preocupat de influenta crescânda a uniunii sovietice , dar si de statele sunnite din golf care se temeau de cresterea în putere a siismului , saddam a învins iranul , dar a facut o greseala strategica : a invadat kuweitul .
a considerat ca bogatia emiratului & # 8211 ; pe care irakienii îl considerau o regiune rebela & # 8211 ; poate compensa pierderile uriase din razboiul cu iranul & # 8211 ; peste 100 de miliarde de dolari .
în plus , în toti anii în care s-a aflat la putere , saddam hussein si-a urmarit un obiectiv strategic propriu : distrugerea israelului si proclamarea sa ca lider incontestabil al lumii arabe .
ultimul palat construit de saddam hussein la bagdad & # 8211 ; are 16 în capitala si 72 în toata tara & # 8211 ; este decorat cu doua uriase busturi : unul al lui salahudin & # 8211 ; califul kurd care i-a învins pe cruciati si a ocupat ierusalimul & # 8211 ; si celalalt al celui care s-a dorit al doilea salahudin : saddam hussein .
saddam hussein nu a fost niciodata iubit de arabi .
nici nu si-a dorit .
a vrut sa le fie frica de el si sa-l venereze în calitate de conducator absolut .
liderii arabi moderati îl considera un pericol pentru ca , prin actiunile sale , poate influenta stabilitatea si securitatea tarilor pe care le conduc . palestinienii îl aproba si îl pretuiesc pentru ca sprijina financiar & # 8211 ; spre deosebire de alte state arabe bogate & # 8211 ; cauza palestiniana .
o face însa din simpatie sau din dorinta de a ramâne în istorie ca liderul arab care a distrus israelul ?
statele unite si-au anuntat intentia de a împarti irakul post-saddam în trei sau chiar patru zone administrate militar de la centru pâna va deveni posibila instaurarea unui regim politic democratic , ales liber si bazat pe lege .
în rândul arabilor exista convingerea , însa , ca administratia americana doreste fragmentarea teritoriala a irakului .
este clar ca primul rezultat al disparitiei dictaturii saddam hussein va fi accentuarea tendintelor centrifuge .
kurzii isi doresc statul propriu , un stat considerat obiectiv politic imposibil de acceptat de turcia si iran .
este si motivul pentru care cele doua tari coopereaza împotriva factiunilor kurde din nodul irakului , desi fiecare dintre ele a încercat la un moment dat sa sprijine o grupare adversa .
ambitia politica a kurzilor este dublata de dorinta lor de a-si asigura resursele pe baza câmpurilor petrolifere din nordul irakului , de lânga mossul si kirkuk .
un alt obiectiv greu de acceptat de turcia si iran , dar nici de aceasta data de statele unite .
devenita realitate , fragmentarea irakului ar pune într-o pozitie excelenta cealalta grupare etnica & # 8211 ; siitii & # 8211 ; de fapt majoritari .
raspânditi în zonele petrolifere , siitii sunt banuiti de afinitati pro-iraniene desi multi dintre ei alcatuiesc o elita comerciala si stiintifica a irakului .
o eventuala desprindere a siitilor si , de ce nu , alipirea lor la iran ar perturba grav echilibrul regional , cu atât mai mult cu cât si emiratele din golf , mai putin regatul saudit , sunt dominate de siiti .
tot la capitolul perspective politice trebuie mentionate si undele de soc produse de anuntul adminstratiei bush privind intentiile de democratizare a lumii arabe . este o declaratie cu efect de tsunami într-o lume în care relatiile tribale si atotputernicii seici continua sa fie stâlpii de rezistenta . nici liderii arabi moderati apropiati occidentului nu sunt pregatiti sa accepte democratizarea reala a societatilor pe care le conduc .
pe de alta parte , destabilizarea echilibrului politic intern din aceste tari , existent în acest moment gratie unui regim de forta sia limitarii accesului maselor la bogatia data de petrol , ar favoriza gruparile si partidele islamiste , devenite extrem de puternice în ultimii ani .
nu trebuie sa evitam adevarul : dupa irak vor urma alte state !
nu este obligatorie însa optiunea militara .
vom vedea în anii ce urmeaza reforme politice , mai mult sau mai putin de buna-voie , în siria , arabia saudita , iran , yemen .
semnele unor evolutii de acest gen sunt evidente : reforme politice , inclusiv ale legii electorale , în iordania si siria .
tot în iordania , femeile au primit , pentru prima oara , dreptul de a fi reprezentate în parlament . iordania pare sa fie de altfel , dupa pacea cu israelul din 1994 , vârful de lance al transformarii lumii arabe .
o concluzie este prematura .
vom vedea daca viitorul va confirma convingerea statelor unite ca modelul democratic occidental poate fi adoptat si de statele arabe sau nu .
un esec însa ar aduce la putere fortele islamiste ancorate înca într-un feudalism dur , rigid si , lucrul cel mai important , profund anti-occidental . © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday jan 6 , 2014 issuance of the coin is in line with the tradition of the bot to issue such coins to commemorate special and important events of national and international significance , prof ndulu said .
the coin displays the portrait of the late sheikh abeid amani karume , on its obverse side encircled with an inscription , ’ rais wa kwanza wa zanzibar na mwenyekiti wa baraza la mapinduzi ’ ( the first president of zanzibar and chairman of the revolutionary council ) , while on the reverse side it displays the coat of arms of the revolutionary government of zanzibar , inscribed ’ miaka hamsini ya mapinduzi ’ ( fifty years of the revolution ) , the denomination value and the dates 1964-2014 .
minnesota dioceses : the archdiocese of saint paul and minneapolisthe diocese of saint cloudthe diocese of crookstonthe diocese of new ulmthe diocese of winona steven seagal says he may run for ariz. governor mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est questions remain on edc assets sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 21 am est ’ age waits for no one ’ fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 21 pm est hornell aldermen take oath of office tue dec 31 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est so many ny apples , but not enough storage sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 21 pm est ellenville event to help those facing foreclosure sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 21 pm est how a government shutdown could affect you tue nov 19 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est dolgeville middle school has a new principal tue nov 19 , 2013 12 : 21 pm est flu season makes its return sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 21 am est pension costs may decrease for olean sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 21 am est cattaraugus county legislature chairmanship fight continues ; joseph snyder not yet ready to concede sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 21 am est allegany county landfill projected to close by 2016 sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 21 am est foothills to host ’ state of the state ’ reaction sat jan 4 , 2014 06 : 21 am est legislator schadt takes seat for district 19 sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 21 pm est kline takes seat on legislature sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 21 pm est new legislator takes oath of office sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 21 pm est health law leaves volunteer firefighting in limbo mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 21 am est people can sign up for weatherization help mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 21 am est mid-hudson briefs : stormville man killed in snowmobile crash mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 21 am est grant to provide assistance to indigent dutchess county defendants mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 21 am est cuomo to add hunting , fishing options on driver ’ s license mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est in the biz : businesses coming and going in the new year sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 21 pm est white house : biden to appear with ny gov in albany sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 21 pm est communities look to pay for flood cleanup while waiting for federal aid mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est travel could be " significantly impacted " this evening sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 21 pm est andover man arrested on sex charge sun dec 29 , 2013 10 : 21 am est feral hogs no longer ’ fair game ’ in ny sun dec 15 , 2013 6 : 21 pm est clarkstown police seek suspect in sex abuse at palisades center mall mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 21 am est dr brian hick was impressed by soloist laura van der heijden during the latest performance by maidstone symphony orchestra it ’ s got four wheels , but can it outrun a chevy ?
probably not .
wilbert mosbrucker spent most of his life on the farm .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
bullish on 2014 - barrons.com owners of the seized consignment lobby to buy his own chattels the guardian has learnt that the directors of sak international , the company under investigation for evading tax in exportation of 80,000 tones of dry hides worth over $ 150,000 , are said to have offered the highest bid at auction . & ldquo ; it is true sak has won the auction with the highest offer , so it will be allowed to take the hides as soon as other processes are completed , & rdquo ; said our source within tra who did not want to be named .
l ’ édification d ’ un etat de droit , démocratique , soucieux de la dignité de la personne humaine , de la sécurité et de la prospérité pour tous. la priorité dans la politique du cndd et sa part du budget passera à 15 & percnt .
elle obéira au principe de la modernisation par l ’ introduction de la mécanisation et des acquis de la recherche scientifique ; au principe de la diversification des cultures vivrières et industrielles et au principe de la rationalisation avec agricoles sera encouragée .
pour cela , le gouvernement cndd va créer cinq centres pilotes de développement intégré dans les cinq régions du pays : nord , sud , processus de développement endogène local .
a cet effet , il va de l ’ agriculture , de l ’ elevage et de la nutrition organisé en un secrétariat d ’ etat à la production agricole et à l ’ alimentation et un secrétariat d ’ etat à l ’ etat sur toute l ’ étendue de la république .
cela permettra de réduire sensiblement les conflits récurrents entre les citoyens et l ’ etat sur informées , formées et sensibilisées sur le travail agricole et sur sa éleveur suivra une formation dans ces domaines pour maîtriser son savoir faire dans ces deux secteurs vitaux du pays , la formation sera sanctionnée par un choix des espèces plus productives .
équilibrage entre les bananes à cuire et les veillera au choix de nouvelles boutures de manioc et combattra la maladie de la du maïs et du blé connaîtra une forte augmentation afin de combattre la faim et de pouvoir vendre aux industries et aux particuliers .
les boulangeries seront les haricots , les arachides , le soja , les petits pois : leur production sera augmentée pour procurer à la population des protéines et pouvoir vendre aux industries .
les patates douces et les pommes de terre : nous allons sélectionner les espèces les plus résistantes et les plus rentables .
les palmiers à huile : mieux étudier les potentiels alimentaire et industriel du palmier à huile , organiser une meilleure distribution de l ’ huile de palme .
le riz : augmenter la production pour en limiter les importations .
les légumes et les fruits : production et procurer le pays les devises dont il a besoin , le cndd va formation et de l ’ information , ces techniciens seront orientés vers les pays production et lutter contre la contrebande , les prix d ’ achat au planteur seront encouragés à prendre des actions dans les coopératives , sociétés de fournis pour apporter un maximum de valeur ajoutée par transformation de développement seront gérées sous forme de coopératives .
la population des le cndd s ’ engage à encourager la production , la transformation , la conservation , la commercialisation et la distribution des produits agricoles pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire de la population .
a cette fin , le cndd envisage d ’ élaborer des programmes régionaux de développement pour exploiter au maximum les opportunités de spécialisation régionale dans la production agricole , de créer des offices de produits vivriers et réhabiliter la fête agricole .
de plus le cndd va encourager , par des mesures fiscales et réglementaires , la création des coopératives d ’ achat d ’ intrants agricoles et de commercialisation des produits agricoles .
pour redonner l ’ honneur à l ’ agriculture il sera instauré une fête nationale de l ’ agriculture. ainsi que la lutte contre l ’ érosion et les sols acides , l ’ utilisation des semences sélectionnées ( à l ’ exclusion des ogm ) , la modernisation des outils rationalisation des circuits des produits agricoles , la régulation des prix des produits agricoles en vue d ’ une juste rémunération et la transformation équipements agricoles .
le cndd assurera donc l ’ accès aux prêts pour la afin de permettre au monde rural d ’ épargner en sécurité .
il veillera à la micro-crédit sur tout le territoire burundais , à la création d ’ un fonds de agences de crédit agricole dans toutes les provinces pour augmenter l ’ accès du monde rural à l ’ épargne ainsi qu ’ à la garantie de la totalité de provinciales de crédit agricole seront des centres d ’ excellence en matière de données , de recherches et d ’ analyses des économies locales afin de mieux en matière d ’ élevage , le cndd s ’ engage à encadrer et à former les éleveurs , promouvoir la recherche d ’ espèces plus productives et résistantes , encourager la création des coopératives d ’ éleveurs et à faciliter leur accès aux crédits , repérer et aménager des zones d ’ élevage pour le petit et le gros bétail , introduire l ’ usage à large échelle des plantes fourragères , promouvoir la pisciculture et la culture des algues marines lacustres sur les lacs , protéger les espèces marines lacustres ainsi que les zones de pêche. élaborer une carte d ’ aménagement du territoire burundais dans son entièreté .
dans ce but , il va créer un ministère de l ’ aménagement du territoire et de l ’ environnement ( ou ministère du développement durable ) , mettre en place une naturelles du pays et élaborer un plan directeur d ’ aménagement du territoire prévoyant l ’ implantation des villages , des centres urbains , des pistes rurales , des routes d ’ intérêt régional , y compris les chemins de fer. organisée dans la capitale et en province .
il sera créé des écoles et instituts spécialisés ainsi qu ’ une garde chargée de faire respecter les codes de l ’ industrie , aux routes et autres infrastructures sociales .
les zones destinées publics et privés ainsi que l ’ espace réservé à la construction des habitations pour les citoyens seront déterminées par la loi .
a bujumbura et dans toutes les villes du burundi , une zone dite & bdquo ; aire administrative « sera déterminée .
cœur de l ’ administration , il y sera érigé les grands bâtiments publics abritant les administrations de l ’ etat .
cela évitera la dispersion des services de l ’ etat. pour l ’ étude et la mise en exécution de ce programme. gestion de l ’ environnement passera par le choix d ’ énergies non polluantes , l ’ entretien des parcs nationaux , des aires et des espèces protégées , une politique de collecte et de traitement des déchets industriels et ménagers , une campagne soutenue de reboisement des espaces arides et des bordures des axes routiers , le tout s ’ appuyant sur une éducation des citoyens à la bonne des rivières et des lacs , notamment le lac tanganyika sera menée. en place un système de ramassage et de traitement des déchets : eaux matière de préservation de l ’ environnement et inciter les industries à de sécurité de l ’ environnement .
il s ’ appliquera à la réhabilitation des banlieues contre l ’ exclusion et la bidonvilisation ; ainsi qu ’ à la conservation et à l ’ utilisation durable de la biodiversité ( faune et flore ) , notamment celle du lac tanganyika et des autres réserves naturelles , par la généralisation des méthodes de protection de l ’ environnement , du maintien et de la restauration de s ’ engage à réhabiliter les réserves naturelles et le reboisement de tous les sommets , plantation des arbres permettant d ’ enrichir et de protéger les sols comme le neem , les bambous , les arbres fruitiers … ainsi il sera instauré moins une journée de travaux communautaires par mois et un service national pour le reboisement de tout le pays en trois ans et encourager toute personne physique ou morale ou collectivité locale qui se sera illustrée dans le projet de protection et de dépollution des rivières et des lacs , notamment le attention particulière sera attirée pour préserver la faune et la flore burundi a été coupé , transformé en bois de chauffage et vendu parfois à l ’ étranger .
cela a eu comme conséquence l ’ irrégularité des pluies et la du pays qui a déjà commencé dans la province de kirundo et qui a déjà fait de allons mettre sur pied un programme de reboisement du pays .
les arbres comme les eucalyptus qui appauvrissent le sol par la consommation de grandes quantités d ’ eau et dont les effets négatifs sont la diminution des nappes phréatiques burundi réalités ( c ) 2006 all rights reserved the silsbee bee yanga get 45 applicants , to pick coach in two days na habakuki urio this guy is a future father of twins , and so i feel a certain camaraderie with him : dear matt , sorry , i don 't mean to bug you .
i know you are very busy and probably get a lot of email ( that 's an understatement lol ) .
anyways , i found out a few weeks ...
quizás reciba mala atención al cliente porque es usted un mal cliente podría haberle hecho una foto y publicarla aquí para avergonzarle públicamente , pero no lo he hecho .
es porque intento no ser vengativo , señora .
simplemente me gustaría responder a la pregunta que planteó .
esto puede ser lo que los políticos llaman " una oportunidad de aprendizaje " para usted y para la gente ...
si vous avez un mauvais service , c 'est peut-être parce que vous êtes un mauvais client j 'aurais pu prendre une photo de vous et la poster sur mon blogue pour vous humilier publiquement , mais je ne l 'ai pas fait .
je ne veux pas me montrer rancunier , m 'dame .
a la place , je préfère répondre à la question que vous avez posée .
cela se révèlera pour vous et ...
if you shop on thanksgiving , you are part of the problem " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . michael brenner imperialism is a state of mind as much as it is a structure of domination .
that truth is central to understanding the attitude of those who presume to impose their will on others , to run the affairs of alien people , to control what they may do and what they may ...
hillary clinton has been coroneted as the presumptive next president of the united states - by the celebrity mongers , by the chic hollywood set , by the media , by the pundits , by the big donors , by congressional democratic leaders like nancy pelosi and charles schumer and by the las vegas odds-makers ....
our rulers who run the gwot can be counted on to observe one imperative : never miss an opportunity to exaggerate the threat and to sow anxiety .
each tragedy is used to touch-up the already grim picture of ruthless enemies , to heighten the sense of imminent danger , and to call for ...
there will always be an england dear to the hearts of americans who adore the quaint - especially where the natives speak an intelligible tongue .
the brits high regard for the united states further warms the cockles of the anglophilic heart .
imitation being the ultimate form of respect in today 's ...
the overthrow of the muslim brotherhood government in cairo has stirred speculation as to what it impends for politics across the middle east .
washington 's commentariat is especially enamored with the notion that " political islam " is dead - or fatally injured , or on its way to the dustbin of history , or ...
the snowden storm has suddenly and surprisingly been reduced to a zephyr -- at least as far as the obama white house in concerned .
no longer the diabolical traitor who has put america in peril , he has been reduced to the verbal status of a " hacker " by the president himself ....
the snowden affair : the grave , the craven and the gratuitous the new fundamentalists cross-posted with tomdispatch.com in a 1950s civics textbook of mine , i can remember a martian landing on main street , u.s.a. , to be instructed in the glories of our political system .
you know , our tripartite government , checks and balances , miraculous set of ...
no ' armistice ' in washington 's global war on veterans day 2013 recently , " good " news about energy has been gushing out of north america , where a cheering crowd of pundits , energy experts , and government officials has been plugging the u.s. as the " saudi arabia " of the twenty-first century .
you know , all that fracking and those luscious deposits of ...
stopping al qaeda one mrap at a time in rural america if it 's tuesday , it must be [ you fill in the country ] how to create the foundations for an american totalitarian state the only way to cut the pentagon budget : downsize the mission how to gain expertise in recognizing torture : go to law school " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.the silsbee bee i couldn 't do what i do now , i wouldn 't be where i am today if i wasn 't able to cultivate my own .
stateline – which states are most vulnerable to sequestration ’ s education cuts ?
sides square off over judge ’ s overturn of utah ban on same-sex marriage usaid program on prevention of hiv and tuberculosis started in uzbekistan how to become the student in uzbekistan or " the price " of admission seven years of jail for aids prevention .
how maxim popov " was absorbed " underwear and linen on the one hand and jubilee on the other : capital of uzbekistan is prettied for unscheduled festivities uzbekistan : the andijani issue and mistakes made by the west an update on the uzbek-us relations .
the stick and the carrot policy again ?
islam karimov promises a " thaw " and demands abandonment of " soviet stereotypes " from the west bairam shihmuradov hopes to see his father yet after five years of uncertainty are kyrgyz security structures out to pin the blame for alisher saipov 's assassination on hizb-ut-takhrir ?
ajdar kurtov : why is kyrgyzstan not switzerland and not even the ussr ?
new president of turkmenistan follows in the steps of his predecessor president of uzbekistan urges his fellow uzbeks to « stop boasting » and « be watchful » также alfeco защита картера двигателя вы можете увидеть только у нас на форуме .
также alfeco защита картера двигателя вы можете увидеть только у нас на форуме .
fiat in the fast lane - barrons.com a lot of us grew up in a time or place where being gay was not ok .
maybe you were raised in a repressively religious household , or in a small , socially conservative town .
or maybe you grew up in a large city , but 30 years too soon for urban acceptance ...
one hot summer , when i was 16 and freshly out of the closet , my big dyke friend made me stand with her on a street corner in the west village , and for hours at a time we guessed the sexuality of each passerby .
" i think she 's straight , " i 'd say , and ...
when my fiancée and i decided to do the dirty deed , we firmly agreed that the only knot we 'd be tying was the marital one .
we promised that we wouldn 't get our panties or patience knotted in the process , and that we wouldn 't stress about planning our special ...
the twelve gays of christmas on the first day of christmas , my true love gave to me a vagina ornament for the tree .
on the second day of christmas , my true love gave to me two turkey basters and a vagina ornament for the tree ....
why no mention of ' gay ' in the debates is great a penis and a dress : why the gender binary needs to go away sri lankan opener kaushal perera has been called up to replace the injured lahiru thirimanne for the remaining two tests against pakistan . ( 1 / 6 / 2014 5 : 20 : 01 am ) you may have noticed the new yamaha clavinova keyboard if you attended the fall concert in the gymnasium of the center-stanton high school .
oliver county might not yet be a player in the oil-producing game , but it will surely play a role in supporting the oil industry .
darryl heid didn ’ t know if he wanted to go fishing until 4 in the morning .
it was the last few days of his youngest son , dane ’ s , summer vacation .
using a jig almost as big as he is to land a 150-pound yellowfin tuna made a deep sea fishing trip off the coast of cape cod a once in a lifetime memory for an oliver county youth .
the bishop was speaking at the new year ’ s eve mass at the water front church in dar es salaam .
father kagomba said the nation should ask god to give a leader who will be in a position of supervising his subordinates and ensure peace and tranquility prevails . & ldquo ; as we thank god let us also ask him to guide us in electing a president who will stand against tribalism and nepotism , & rdquo ; said the priest during the mass .
for his part , a priest with saint albano church in dar es salaam , aidano mbulinyingi said the nation should pray for the president and other leaders to lead the nation in peace .
minangi said the soldier was coming from amana hospital to buy medicine for his child .
when he saw the group of youths surrounding his car as he pulled out his pistol and shot them in defence .
two other youths who were injured havbe been named as rupano wanga ( 17 ) a resident of pugu makange studying at tandika secondary school and kassim abdul ( 16 ) .
" what on earth is happening in the hearts of men ?
what on earth is happening in the heart of humanity ? " he said to tens of thousands of people in st peter 's square on the day the roman catholic church celebrates its world day of peace .
francis , named person of the year by time magazine and a number of other publications , has urged his own church to set an example by being more fair and frugal and less pompous , and to get closer to the poor and afflicted .
oregon : as of nov .
18 , no one had enrolled through the website .
“ if we have to go back and validate and clarify , we can do that but at least we ’ ll have enough in place to take the application , ” he explained .
the trojans evened their record at one win and one loss with an 82 to 56 win over the new salem holsteins on tuesday night .
but , friday night the tro-jans lost to the linton lions on the home court 68 to 55 to put the trojans at one win and two losses .
[ daily news ] kampala -former president of tanzania , mr ali hassan mwinyi visited muslim clerics at kibuli in kampala and called for unity . ( 1 / 6 / 2014 12 : 45 : 45 am ) soudan du sud : le gouvernement d ’ accord pour un cessez-le-feu selon l ’ igad soudan du sud : le gouvernement d ’ accord pour un cessez-le-feu selon le président kenyan uhuru kenyatta a exhorté les frères ennemis sud-soudanais vendredi , à l ’ issue de son sommet de nairobi , au kenya , que le gouvernement du président sud-soudanais salva kiir a accepté le principe d 'un cessez-le-feu dans les combats interethniques qui ont fait plus de 1 000 morts .
l ’ igad a appelé les partisans de l ’ ancien vice-président riek machar à s ’ engager à respecter une telle trêve .
le président kenyan uhuru kenyatta a exhorté les frères ennemis sud-soudanais à trouver un compromis . & bdquo ; nous avons une très petite fenêtre d ’ opportunité pour rétablir la paix et nous appelons toutes les parties prenantes à la saisir , y compris riek machar « , a déclaré m. kenyatta . & bdquo ; si la violence actuelle se poursuit , et la violence sur le terrain conduit à des atrocités contre les civils , elle va créer une dynamique globale qui va , et pour le soudan du sud et pour notre région , rendre les choses beaucoup plus difficiles pour parvenir à une solution « , a averti le chef de l ’ etat kenyan .
le président kiir et machar s ’ étaient , tous les deux , déclarés prêts au dialogue , mais le gouvernement a rejeté la préalable de machar qui exigeait la les forces gouvernementales , selon l ’ agence de presse reuters , ont défait vendredi les combattants fidèles à machar à malakal , la capitale de l 'état l 'onu a déclaré jeudi qu 'elle espérait envoyer des renforts pour le maintien de la paix au soudan du sud dans les 48 heures .
l ’ envoyée spéciale des nations unies , hilde johnson , a souligné une & bdquo ; urgence sans précédent « de renforcer la présence des nations unies sur place .
elle a dit que plus de 50.000 civils avaient trouvé refuge dans les bases de l 'onu dans le pays depuis le début des combats .
johnson a également exhorté les dirigeants politiques du pays à contenir leurs partisans et à agir dans le sens de la paix .
society watch : will 2014 be remembered for giving us a new constitution ?
jk on warioba 's second draft : if it will not pass , there will be no new constitution : signs are beginning to appear on the political scene as to what is likely to take place when the now expected convening of research and markets has announced the addition of the " oil and gas industry of turkmenistan " report to their offeri ( 12 / 18 / 2013 5 : 02 : 00 am ) the onward flight to london gatwick had to be cancelled and , as of thursday , the damaged aircraft was reportedly still on the ground in saint lucia .
due to the flooding , the airport closed for the rest of tuesday and wednesday but reopened at 3 : 00 pm on thursday .
however , no jet fuel was reportedly due to be available until friday .
we feel it is a good time to buy property due to the insecurity of the present economic situation , except oil .. registered leasehold of up to 30 years for all types of titled land here if you do the paperwork right .
prices are a lot cheaper than the first thing you need to do is obtain the services of a reputable is not regulated so watch out for agents forcing you to sign contracts , deed to make sure the property is what it says .
do yourself a big mortgages and want to unload the houses before they pay off the loan lost if he did not use our service .
the same goes with the boundaries of the property which need to be the same as the title deed .
in thailand there 's no survey pegs as understate property area or move so called pegs .
do not pay any down have had the title checked by a lawyer .
if the building is under construction or the land is having a subdivision look carefully at the provisions for issuing a title , and easement rights for say roadways .
if you are a foreigner you can lease for 30 years or form a company to hold the house if you are going do not start a company for the sake of securing your house .
as at 2006 march immigration and company registration are now interviewed as well as what business you are doing ? ? ? ? this law has always been but now it is being enforced as at may 25th 2006 .
the document does not indicate legal possession of the informer so one cannot transfer the ownership of the property to any one else .
the sor kor 1 is rare now as the government 's land ownership legislation has nor sor 3 is a governmental letter certifying a utilization of certain difference is the map survey of the land plot based on an aerial-viewed ownership title deed or chanote is the ultimate certification of be a friend who procures a builder for the foreigner then has a separate contract with the builder for his cut which is 1 / 2 of the asking satang which is not even a baht .
if you need a good builder in chiangmai lawyer or ask us as we can give you a quote with times etc if you want they ask in advance you could find yourself in a bad situation .
itemize the materials and also how many men they will have on the job and also and will offer you discounts and extras just to get your business .
if of your new home and meets the agreed requirement on specification .
if he urged the fans not to worry about the two players as they will be with the team at any moment .
jk on warioba 's second draft : if it will not pass , there will be no new constitution na ani jozen signs are beginning to appear on the political scene as to what is likely to take place when the now expected convening of a constituent assembly takes place , with a view to putting up a document to serve as a new constitution of the united republic .
that sheds light on at least one preliminary question , as to whether it is a matter of finding the right compromises to reach a workable and acceptable document , the way international treaties are negotiated , or other .
the work of the commission was to receive views on each aspect and to deliberate on them , in which case the matter at hand is whether the format as it stands is acceptable as a new constitution , either in totality or in its generality .
those remarks were by and large taken on the flip side by popularisers and optimists , that the president was asking ccm to prepare for a new constitution , something of the sort .
and then it quickly became clear that the ccm secretariat was ' unpreparing ' for a new constitution , as it was working for the opposite direction , of keeping the status quo .
one reason why there was no ambivalence on the part of the ccm secretariat as to preparing for the new constitution is that the overall sentiment expressed by the president was applicable to the mainland , hardly to zanzibar .
in the latter context the degree of animosity of the isles authorities ( in the sense of the ruling party and not their uneasy colleagues in a government of national unity ) to the idea of a split in the structure has never been hidden .
while on the mainland sentiments about the union have remained a personal matter for the leadership , at any rate up to the issuing of the first draft , in the isles it is a matter of party discipline , undisguised .
owing to the pent up manner in which the matter of three governments , or for that matter ' full autonomy ' for zanzibar as demanded by seif shariff hamad in the isles , is being expressed , trying to negotiate its various clauses could be slippery .
in addition , while the isles have a constitution upon which the constituent assembly can refer to see how it can work , tanganyika has the current constitution as guide .
tied to that idea is appointment of ministers from outside the legislature , apparently so as to be vetted by mps one after another , and all their actions be controlled by mps , instead of the president .
that way the right thing to do would be to prepare a bill for the dissolution of the union , showing in elaborate way what happens to union organs , how they are reconstituted , loyalty shifted , and not producing a format for igniting an explosion , then a break up is a fait accompli .
even more ponderable still is the sincerity of the members of the commission in reaching the conclusions they did on structures of the union , and why they could not face the issues .
courtyard by marriott glenwood springs105 wulfsohn rd.glenwood springs , co 816015 : 30pm presidente anuncia 10 % de aumento al salario mínimo y pensionesrefirió que con este incremento , sumado al aprobado del año 2013 , el salario de los venezolanos creció 59 % entre mayo de 2013 y enero de 2014realizarán primer juicio contra un hombre que torturó y mató a un perro en zuliase trata del primer caso de maltrato animal que es llevado a tribunales , donde el presunto culpable fue identificado como deivis rojas , quien habría golpeado ... maduro : an debe convertirse en el gran contralor del proceso revolucionario " es una petición especial que venimos a ratificar : que la an se convierta en el gran contralor del proceso revolucionario .
aquí está el plan de la patria " , ...
presidente anuncia 10 % de aumento al salario mínimo y pensiones realizarán primer juicio contra un hombre que torturó y mató a un perro en zulia maduro : an debe convertirse en el gran contralor del proceso revolucionario diosdado cabello : agenda de la an en 2014 está enfocada en el tema social " nuestras prioridades están enfocadas en lo social ( ... )
lo que hemos planteado ( los diputados ) es que ley que tenga carácter social y de beneficio para el pueblo , tendrá prioridad en la asamblea nacional " , reiteró cabello , desde el palacio de miraflores , en caracas ciudadanos pueden denunciar retención de vehículos a través del 0800-carromp a través del 0800-carromp ( 2277667 ) los ciudadanos podrán denunciar cualquier hecho que pueda revestir carácter penal en materia de retención de automóviles el presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , declaró este lunes al 2014 como el año de la juventud venezolana , a propósito del bicentenario de la batalla de la victoria víctimas de abusos de ddhh en iv república pueden denunciar casos vía telefónica los familiares y las víctimas de torturas , desapariciones y muertes , durante los gobiernos de la cuarta república desde 1958 hasta 1998 pueden efectuar sus denuncias y / o aportar nueva información vía telefónica a través del número 0800-860-70-80 presidente maduro reitera que participará en cumbre de la celac speaking in dar es salaam , mathias chikawe said : & ldquo ; angola is the only african country that has attained the best standards of utilisation of oil products and gas that are benefiting its citizens evenly .
the best way of managing the oil resource is to formulate policies that focus on the improvement of the citizen ’ s welfare . ’ ’ polices should clearly give room for the involvement of the local communities in the management and utilisation of oil and gas products for country ’ s economy to have chance in the competitive global liberal market .
according to chikawe , angola is one of the richest countries in hydrocarbons .
he said in angola a high percentage of the oil exploration and production is supervised by foreign companies but the economic situation for its people is good .
itv journalist shortlisted for usd 1 million grant na mashaka mgeta other shortlisted applicants for the grant on health issues were ajibola amzat ( nigeria ) , ayenew haileselassie ( ethiopia ) , bivai idissa ( togo ) , ebrima sillah ( ghana / senegal ) , elísio muchanga ( mozambique ) , eugene nforngwa ( cameroon ) , gibbs dube ( zimbabwe ) and joy wanja ( kenya ) .
also include kerry cullinan ( south africa ) , kiprotich koros ( kenya ) , kolawole talabi ( nigeria ) , mongezi zulu ( swaziland ) , mutale pamela kapekele ( zambia ) , ousman sillah ( gambia ) , raymond bagur ( uganda ) , rebbeca davis ( south africa ) , sam makaka ( malawi ) , selase kove – seyram ( ghana ) , tsitsi matope ( lesotho ) .
andrus ansip : " estonia is interested in development of relations between kyrgyzstan and the eu " бишкектеги « кара-суу » кафесинде 3 адам кардардын 112 миң сомдон ашык акчасын тартып алган president almazbek atambayev met with ceo of ex-im bank of the republic of korea kim yong -hwan gsin and gskn discussed the condition and results of drug prevention in penitentiary system in kyrgyzstan murder of former journalist and showman bakyt bukaev likely was committed with the purpose of robbery , bishkek police ded moroz to feature in tajik new year festivities after all 2011 all rights reserved . © copyright kabar national news agency © software support by expresskg iaa minister of state in the prime minister 's office - policy , coordination and national assembly , william lukuvi who is also chairman of the funeral committee announced in dar es salaam yesterday that dr mgimwa ’ s body is expected arrive in dar es salaam on saturday at 7pm and be taken to his home at mikocheni b in dar es salaam . & ldquo ; we call upon all friends and relatives who live in dar and want to pay their last respects to our beloved dr mgimwa , to show up at karimjee grounds while those in iringa should gather at siasa ni kilimo conference hall on the same day around 4pm , & rdquo ; he said .
the body is expected to leave dar via jnia on a government aircraft to nduli airport in iringa region .
speaking to the guardian at dr mgimwa ’ s residence in dar es salaam , the son of the deceased , godfrey mgimwa , said he thanked god for giving them a good father who taught them ethics and how to live religiously in peace , love and unity with all people .
mgimwa ’ s son referred to his father as ’ a man of the people ’ who made it a habit to share whatever he had with the needy especially in providing educational support .
à tel aviv , si vous voulez vous faire soigner , il faudra d 'abord prouver que le 1er juillet 2013 , gabi barbash , directeur du centre médical ichilov à tel aviv , fait circuler des instructions pour interdire l ’ accès aux immigrés ou aux réfugiés africains désirant rendre visite à des patients , sauf en cas d ’ urgence .
officiellement pour des raisons de santé publique , afin de & bdquo ; minimiser les risques pour la santé des patients et du personnel « , rapporte le quotidien les africains venus pour une hospitalisation , des examens ou des soins médicaux sont cependant autorisés à entrer , explique le site .
les parents d ’ enfants malades ou les maris de femmes en travail peuvent également accéder à — patients et visiteurs — doivent subir une radio de la poitrine pour prouver qu ’ ils ne sont pas porteurs de la tuberculose , apprend-on encore .
a l ’ intérieur même de l ’ hôpital , les patients se voient discriminés , ajoute haaretz : les femmes enceintes et les enfants d ’ immigrés sont placés dans un espace séparé du reste de la maternité ou de l ’ aile pédiatrique .
selon un responsable d ’ ichilov , cette directive n ’ a qu ’ un but purement médical , réduire les risques de contagion .
en effet , d ’ après le quotidien maariv , en 2012 , 15 israéliens ont été diagnostiqués de la tuberculose contre 65 africains .
cette maladie nécessite la mise en place d ’ une quarantaine , d ’ un personnel spécifique et de soins individuels très coûteux , explique l ’ article .
la direction de l ’ hôpital ichilov se plaint depuis plusieurs années de devoir prodiguer un grand nombre de traitements médicaux aux migrants et aux réfugiés sans aucune compensation financière , avance haaretz .
pourtant , d ’ après le trésor public israélien , le coût supplémentaire engendré par ces patients est négligeable par rapport à ce que rapporte l ’ activité de l ’ hôpital .
d ’ après maariv , le nombre d ’ immigrés africains clandestins à tel aviv est estimé à 80.000 , soit environ 15 & percnt de la population .
beaucoup d ’ entre eux ont besoin de soins intensifs , notamment parce que le taux de naissances prématurées est deux fois plus élevé chez les africains que pour le reste de la population , en plus de la tuberculose , ils sont aussi particulièrement touchés par d ’ autres maladies : la population africaine représente un tiers des nouveaux porteurs du sida en israël et la moitié des diagnostics de malaria , indique la pauvreté dans laquelle vivent ces travailleurs clandestins ne fait qu ’ empirer leurs problèmes de santé , contractés dans leur pays d ’ origine et aggravés durant le voyage jusqu ’ en israël , déplore gabi barbash , qui estime à environ 50 millions de nis ( plus de 10 millions d ’ euros ) par an les frais la mesure discriminante répond-elle donc à une problématique économique ou de santé publique ?
autre perspective , plus sombre , elle ne serait qu ’ un témoignage we may use your personal information for the following purposes : vi .
lmg may also use personal information if it has reasonable grounds to believe the information could be useful when investigating a contravention of a federal , provincial or foreign law or in order to protect or defend a legal interest. v. as required by law , including by an order of any court , institution or body with jurisdiction or authority to compel the production of information , or in order to protect or defend a legal interest ; or lmg offers its customers and members choices for the collection , use and sharing of personal information .
if you are a subscriber of a lmg publication , please contact us by phone , email , or write us at the address given above and indicate your preferences in terms of the use of your personal information or if you would like to confirm we have your correct information. iii .
lmg may use your ip address to facilitate the diagnoses and remedy of a technical problem reported by you or our technical team .
what happens if there are changes in the privacy policy ?
the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
hasiotis isn ’ t your typical antarctic fossil hunter .
a recent outburst during an official ceremony illustrates the strain in anjouan between ikililou dhoinine ’ s and ahmed abdallah sambi ’ s supporters . ( ... )
rivalry between president ikililou dhoinine and supporters of his predecessor abdallah sambi have held up the examination of oil contracts by parliament . ( ... )
president ikililou dhoinine promoted , as is his wont , a new ambassador who is not ( ... )
the new ceo of the autorité portuaire des comores ( apc ) , mohamed djaffar , who was ( ... )
millions visit obamacare exchanges on launch day as glitches persist david ormsby : obamacare in cook county has yet to earn bragging rights however , it is not all bad news for alicante , with the arrival of the summer season the airport has announced the addition of 15 new international destinations .
the company in charge of son sant joan airport palma aena ( aeropuertos españoles y navigacion aerea ) has decided to introduce a € 1 charge to use the luggage trolleys .
ryanair has officially scrapped its summertime almeria to madrid route .
the decision has nothing to do with a dispute with authorities in almeria , which has festered all year , and had seen it shelve the route in september .
instead , it ’ s a response to what it perceives as “ unjustified ” hikes in charges imposed by aena , the spanish airports authority .
meanwhile murcia ’ s new corvera airport could get a huge ryanair boost following a snub to the budget airline by an alicante airport .
el altet had a bad november and ryanair will not put matters right .
el altet director santiago martinez-cava questioned the ryanair figures .
any alicante passenger increases that the airline has had at el altet were not proportional to the airport ’ s he claimed .
this , he said , was because part of ryanair ’ s traffic had come from the passengers of other airlines operating out of alicante .
the verbally flamboyant boss of what is described as the world ’ s most popular airline is notorious for his caustic brand of humour and his dislike for corporate heads .
and yes , he loathes manchester united . critics say his low airfares are an illusion .
this is not true : when the guardian recently did the sums ryanair ’ s average tickets costs were € 41 compared with easyjet ’ s € 62 and british airways € 268 .
we budget fliers are subsidized by those who are penalized for breaking the rules or purchasing onboard . the critics either have no business or marketing acumen or they have not done their sums , but why let the truth get in the way of a good tirade .
for a vitriolic few , whatever o ’ leary does he is wrong .
report of the secretary-general on the situation in abyei ( s / 2013 / 706 ) tabaldiya said that the incident happened “ under the eyes and ears of the unamid forces , the police and the army ” .
a pray for finley facebook group was set up for friends and family and expresses gratitude for the support from the community .
" thank you for your continued concern , prayers and generosity , " the page writes in a recent post .
" the outpouring of love from far and wide has touched the family hearts in the hardest of times .
finley went home on hospice and is resting with her family .
continue to pray for peace and serenity for finley and the family . "
october 21 , 2013 no matter how embarrassing it is to us , how painful or angering it may be ; still , there is no getting around the hard reality that the government of the us virgin islands has in no uncertain terms failed its people .
you name it ; whether it is the non-accountability for the misspending of ...
usvi officials in panama to explore transshipment opportunities for st croix infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see tajikistan | reliefweb one-fifth of the world ’ s children are the most vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases .
during the 10th replenishment of the asian development fund ( adf xi ) , the asian development bank ( adb ) and adf donors agreed to pilot the disaster response facility ( drf ) in the adf xi period , 2013 – 2016 .
adb will report on the implementation progress of the drf at the adf xi midterm review , and discuss the future of the drf with the adb board of directors and adf donors at the adf xii negotiations .
tajikistan : torture unchecked in the absence of rule of law the police told me “ if we kill you we ’ ll chuck your body in the canal and no one will ever find you and we won ’ t get punished ” torture , beatings and other ill-treatment are routine in places of detention in tajikistan and thrive in a climate of widespread corruption and impunity , amnesty international said in a new report in which it urged the authorities to roundly condemn and stamp out the practice .
world + 13 others alerta 2013 !
informe sobre conflictos , derechos humanos y construcción de paz informe sobre conflictos , derechos humanos y construcción de paz es un anuario que analiza el estado del mundo en términos de conflictividad y construcción de paz a partir de cuatro ejes : conflictos armados , tensiones , procesos de paz , y dimensión de género en la construcción de paz .
a partir de estas temáticas , alerta 2013 !
thereare many resources available on the internet .
beloware a few sites recommended by the office of worship , diocese of duluth .
porsha who ?
kordell stewart cozies up to towanda braxton days after divorce is finalized less than six months after emma roberts was arrested in montreal , quebec , following a physical fight with her boyfriend evan peters , radaronline.com has learned the two are now engaged ! & hellip ; readon these celebs are leaving very little to the imagination . & hellip ; readon alyssa milano took on jay mohr for his cruel statements about her weight and now she ’ s taking on the cause of animal cruelty and radaronline.com has exclusive details about the & hellip ; readon denise richards tells dcfs she can ’ t take charlie sheen ’ s twins anymore : they ’ ve strangled , slapped & kicked my daughters — and it ’ s all brooke ’ s fault !
kendra wilkinson family feud : mom is heartbroken she rarely sees her grandson scotland yard says madeleine mccann & # 8216 ; s disappearance can be traced to a trio of burglars honing in on the praia da luz area of portugal around the time of the & hellip ; readon ‘ bachelor ’ suicide : gia allemand was ‘ upset ’ nba star boyfriend hadn ’ t proposed yet the eurythmics are reuniting — to pay tribute to the beatles . & hellip ; readon making a little change for the new year , bar refaeli shared an instagram picture of herself smiling wide , and showing off a cute little tattoo ! & hellip ; readon the grinch who ruined christmas ?
beyonce & # 8217 ; s dad mathew knowles paid just 1 / 3 of his court-ordered child support to son in december what was she thinking ?
madonna shares pic of 13-year-old son rocco & his pals partying with booze bottles holy butts !
kim kardashian & blac chyna flaunt their abs & derrieres kim kardashian and her gal pal blac chyna are showing off their butts and abs in a pair of new selfles .
brandi glanville ’ s crossed the line , rhobh co-stars ‘ disgusted ’ by her downton abbey is returning to tv sunday night and your tango is taking a look at all the reasons viewers are obsessed with the show . & hellip ; readon the nfl has fined seattle seahawks player marshawn lynch for his refusal to talk to the media during the season . & hellip ; readon he was the bachelor who went mia and almost missed his own wedding in the hangover flicks , but fortunately justin bartha did make it to his own ceremony on time . & hellip ; readon keira knightley plunked down a whopping $ 6.45 million for a london home and radaronline.com has the photos of her stunning new place . & hellip ; readon former action movie star-turned-reality tv star steven seagal has a new career in mind . he may run for governor of arizona . & hellip ; readon vacationing in hawaii with husband chris martin and their two kids , gwyneth paltrow had a chance to show off her incredible bikini bod and her discreet tattoo .
in the new preview for monday ’ s episode , joyce tries to sway & hellip ; readon ‘ you can never be too thin ! ’
joyce giraud under fire from co-stars for ‘ promoting anorexia ’ a kiss cam caught ashton kutcher and mila kunis getting their pda on at the los angeles lakers game friday . & hellip ; readon alyssa milano is giving jay mohr the benefit of the doubt that he is really , really , really sorry he called her fat .
phil everly , half of one of the most successful and influential pop duos of all time & # 8212 ; the everly brothers & # 8212 ; died this week at the age of 74 . & hellip ; readon inside demi lovato & wilmer valderrama & # 8217 ; s secret romance : did he buy her an engagement ring ?
pebble wants to put a smart watch on everyone ’ s wrist , so it just unveiled a more classically-inspired design © 2014 radar online , llc | privacy policy | terms of use the magic of the christmas season lights up children ’ s faces .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
istoria macedoniei & # 8211 ; cezar dobre | cadran politic în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea .
graţie acestor două instituţii ştiinţifice şi a unei pleiade de cercetători de înaltă valoare , în istoriografia română s-a conturat o direcţie de cercetare – aceea a studiilor privind europa de sud-est – , ilustrată prin contribuţii documentare şi interpretative , care au căpătat o largă recunoaştere ştiinţifică .
periodice precum „ revue historique du sud-est européen ” şi „ balcania ” au cunoscut cote de apreciere ştiinţifică , neîntâlnite în bibliografia istorică românească .
în descendenţa acestor iluştri înaintaşi , s-a plasat şi regretatul profesor gheorghe zbuchea , de la facultatea de istorie a universităţii din bucureşti .
bizantinist de formaţie , el a trecut , apoi , la studiul europei de sud-est în perioada modernă , având , astfel , avantajul de a cunoaşte rădăcinile istorice ale unor situaţii dintr-o arie , care a aparţinut , după formula fericită a lui dmitri obolenski , commonwealth-ului bizantin .
unul din elevii săi , domnul vladimir cezar dobre , şi-a consacrat teza de doctorat studiului problemei macedonene , a implicării româniei în problema macedoneană şi a activităţii macedo-românilor pe teritoriul ţării noastre .
oricine este , cât de cât , familiarizat cu istoria balcanică cunoaştea complexitatea problemelor din această arie , considerată drept „ butoiul de pulbere ” al europei .
tensiuni , lupte , războaie au devastat peninsula balcanică şi au pus pe istorici în faţa unor mari dificultăţi atât în reconstituirea trecutului , cât şi în interpretarea lui .
domnul vladimir cezar dobre nu s-a lăsat descurajat de aceste dificultăţi , şi , întemeiat pe o informaţie bogată , a izbutit să se orienteze în labirintul problemelor balcanice , să prezinte aspecte puţin cunoscute ale problemei macedonene – în ansamblul ei – şi să-l facă pe cititor să înţeleagă de ce şi astăzi problema macedoneană şi problema macedo-românilor rămâne deschisă .
firul ariadnei în străbaterea acestui labirint a fost pasiunea pentru istorie a autorului .
el a izbutit să ofere imaginea clară a unei chestiuni încărcate de patimi şi ură .
pentru cititorul român , soarta fraţilor noştri sud-dunăreni nu poate fi indiferentă .
aşa cum spunea , cu dreptate , nicolae iorga în aceşti fraţi ai noştri din sudul dunării este mai multă romanitate decât în noi pentru că s-au aflat un timp mai îndelungat sub stăpânirea romei .
istoria însă nu i-a răsfăţat , şi , astăzi , romanitatea sud-dunăreană traversează o perioadă dificilă .
un interes deosebit prezintă paginile consacrate de autor „ societăţii de cultură macedo-române ” , care a adunat în cadrul ei oameni devotaţi neamului lor atât de la nord , cât şi de la sud de dunăre , şi care au jucat un rol esenţial în afirmarea identităţii etnice şi în dezvoltarea culturii române .
volumul de faţă este nu numai o contribuţie istorică , dar şi un prilej de meditaţie .
cunoaştem – graţie investigaţiei domnului vladimir cezar dobre – un capitol agitat al istoriei balcanice şi , în acelaşi timp , suntem invitaţi să gândim asupra responsabilităţii noastre faţă de soarta românilor macedoneni .
« previousîmpotriva manipulării , vol 1 & # 8211 ; războiul secret din anul 1989 & # 8211 ; nina georgescu © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresswells fargo capital : how to play 2014 's surprise economy - barrons.com “ the kansas legislature , not the courts , has the power of the purse , ” brownback said .
chunks of ice of all sizes which break off continental ice sheets and ice shelves in a process known as " calving " .
individual icebergs range from a few meters to tens of miles in diameter .
taifa stars did not live up to public expectations as they failed to qualify for the african cup of nations finals to held in south africa and for the 2014 fifa world cup to be staged in brazil .
143 morts .
c ’ est le dernier bilan des attaques de kinshasa , lubumbashi et kindu attribuées à des partisans du pasteur joseph mukungubila .
des ong dénoncent la réponse disproportionnée des forces armées congolaises face à des lundi 30 décembre 2013 , des hommes armés ont lancé trois attaques simultanées à kinshasa contre des symboles du pouvoir .
la première attaque visait l ’ aéroport international de n ’ djili , la seconde , le siège de la télévision d ’ etat ( rtnc ) et la troisième , le camp tshatshi , la principale base militaire de kinshasa .
a la rtnc , où le groupe , armé de machettes et d ’ armes à feu , a pris en otages des journalistes , les assaillants ont eu le temps de passer à l ’ antenne avant que le signal ne soit coupé .
a kindu , dans la province du maniema , un petit groupe d ’ insurgés a essayé de prendre possession de l ’ aéroport de la ville .
ils ont été a kinshasa , ur les écrans de la télévision nationale , les insurgés se sont identifiés comme étant des partisans du pasteur joseph mukungubila , un prédicateur chrétien et candidat malheureux à la présidentielle de 2006 .
en civils , les assaillants affirment vouloir & bdquo ; libérer les congolais de l ’ esclavage des rwandais & bdquo ; .
dans une lettre ouverte datée du 5 décembre , le pasteur joseph mukungubila avait violemment dénoncé la gestion du pays par joseph kabila et tenu un discours haineux à l ’ encontre du rwanda voisin , dont il rappelait les agressions contre la rdc et avec qui , selon lui , le président kabila & bdquo ; pactise & bdquo ; .
pour ce pasteur , très anti-rwandais et anti-tutsi , l ’ accord récent entre les rebelles du m23 ( soutenus par kigali ) et le gouvernement , à la mi-décembre , démontre & bdquo ; les liens étroits « entre le président kabila et le rwanda .
sur le compte facebook du pasteur , joseph kabila d ’ ailleurs accusé d ’ être rwandais et si les attaques semblent avoir été concertées , joseph mukungubila affirme qu ’ elles n ’ étaient qu ’ un soulèvement & bdquo ; spontané « de ses partisans après que les forces de sécurité les ont empêché de distribuer des tracts à lubumbashi .
dans la capitale provinciale du katanga , fief du pasteur , une quarantaine de personnes ont été tuées après les affrontements entre la garde présidentielle et les adeptes de mukungubila , aux abords de sa résidence .
une autre habitation du pasteur , également à lubumbashi , a été perquisitionnée et & bdquo ; des armes ont été le coup de force raté en rdc pose pourtant un certain nombre d ’ interrogations triple attaque de kinshasa et 40 à lubumbashi , le bilan s ’ avère particulièrement lourd .
de nombreuses voix s ’ élèvent pour dénoncer la riposte & bdquo ; disproportionnée « des forces de sécurité congolaises face à des assaillants faiblement armés ( machettes et armes de poing ) .
interrogé sur rfi , le premier concerné , joseph mukungubila , affirme que ses partisans étaient & bdquo ; désarmés « ( les images montrent tout de même le contraire ) .
beaucoup de doutes pèsent en fait sur le niveau d ’ armement des assaillants .
des ong congolaises des droits de l ’ homme demandent une enquête précise et des preuves des armes utilisés par les partisans de mukungubila .
en clair : de nombreux témoins affirment que les insurgés étaient essentiellement armés d ’ armes blanches et de fusils , mais pas d ’ armes lourdes .
la violente riposte de l ’ armée congolaise et le lourd bilan humain des attaques n ’ apparaissent pas justifiés pour ces ong , dont la fédération internationale des ligues des droits de l ’ homme ( fidh ) .
sur la toile les opposants politiques à joseph kabila parlent d ’ un & bdquo ; véritable massacre « contre des & bdquo ; civils « ou d ’ un ddernier élément préoccupant pour le régime de kinshasa : l ’ extrême facilité avec laquelle les insurgés ont pu pénétrer dans des lieux aussi stratégiques ( télévision , aéroport , etat major militaire ) .
beaucoup pensent que les assaillants ont bénéficié de complicité au sein des établissements attaqués ou dans l ’ appareil sécuritaire … ce qui réveille chez certains , la théorie d ’ une & bdquo ; mascarade « organisée par le régime de joseph kabila , en difficulté politique après sa how can there be a priest shortage when our diocese has more than twice as many seminarians as it had 10 years ago ?
any or all of these models could appear in the recommendations submitted by deanery planning groups .
who serves on the diocesan planning committee and how were they selected ?
liz hoefferle — a former director of religious education and member of the bishop ’ s committee on catechesis for the diocese of duluth deacon rodger brannan — serves as a deacon at the cathedral of our lady of the rosary ; experience as an accounting professor and with statistics sevenoaks captain tim warrington is hoping his side can take a few scalps as they embark on the first part of their indoor hockey adventure ...
scott davies was a man of action .
a fan of cricket , football and go-carting ; he lived for sport.but during a routine drive to a friend 's ...
february 21 , 2013 philipsburg , st maarten -- the island of st martin and st maarten now has a free app for iphone and android in four languages , providing comprehensive and current information about what ’ s happening and is interesting for visitors and locals .
suspect arrested in deaths of us couple in st maarten power restored to thousand in metro des moines sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 13 pm est a write-in campaign in the municipal election at max has resulted in the ouster of mayor jody gullickson .
dara schroeder is the new family nurse practitioner at the garrison family clinic .
the unofficial kickoff to summer in the garrison area is this weekend .
it was a sad day in the community of ryder this past thursday .
merkel suffers pelvic fracture on ski holidaybusiness standardmerkel in skiing accident , cancels visitstehran timeshighly cited : german leader angela merkel injured while skiingusa todayfrom germany : german chancellor angela merkel injured in skiing accidentdeutsche wellein depth : why angela merkel tests herself on the ski slopeschristian science monitorsee all 275 sourcesrelated angela merkel the food and drink mogul abdelkader taieb ezzraimi is forging tighter ties with france ’ s glon which is 60 % owned by the french oilseeds giant sofiproteol . ( ... )
speaking during the 18th sommet international du gaz et de l ’ electricite organized ( ... )
hamed koffi zarour has emerged as one of the most active lobbyists in touting algerian ( ... )
exista pareri diferite despre modul în care ar trebui abordat programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord .
pentru liderii politici sud-coreeni , dorinta washingtonului de a nu negocia direct cu phenianul reprezinta o bariera în calea încheierii unui acord care ar rezolva în mod pasnic actuala criza nucleara .
aceasta viziune este împartasita , de asemenea , de catre rusia , china si japonia .
pe de alta parte , oficialii americani sunt sceptici în legatura cu posibilitatea de eliminare permanenta a capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene prin negocierea unui acord , si cred ca sunt necesare presiuni si dialoguri multilaterale pentru evitarea recompensarii comportamentului coreei de nord .
asa cum promitea presedintele george w. bush în discursul privind starea natiunii , & # 8220 ; america si restul lumii nu vor fi santajate & # 8221 ; .
aceste abordari diferite se datoreaza în principal interpretarilor diferite ale obiectivelor nord-coreene .
coreea de nord sustine ca nu doreste sa santajeze pe nimeni , însa una din sarcinile principale în rezolvarea actualei crize este chiar evaluarea adevaratelor intentii ale phenianului .
privesc liderii nord-coreeni armele nucleare ca un mijloc de reunificare prin forta a peninsulei coreene ?
au decis ei ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru supravietuirea regimului , facând imposibila negocierea unui acord ?
sau acest program de înarmare reprezinta un truc la care coreea de nord este dispusa sa renunte , daca pretul este corect ?
este greu sa gasim raspunsuri la aceste întrebari .
o problema ar fi faptul ca informatii sigure despre dinamica interna a procesului de luare a deciziilor în coreea de nord sunt foarte rare .
o alta problema o reprezinta faptul ca liderii nord-coreeni au puternice interese de a-si ascunde adevaratele intentii , pentru a-si maximiza capacitatea de negociere si pentru a minimiza reactiile internationale referitoare la programul de înarmare nucleara .
dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene a fost demonstrata în timpul negocierii cadrului de acorduri din 1994 , în urma carora coreea de nord a înghetat programul de înarmare nucleara , obtinând în schimb pacura si doua reactoare .
acest acorduri au limitat capacitatile coreei de nord de producere a plutoniului , însa nu se stie daca aceasta tara nu avea deja destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare .
un obiectiv cheie al nord-coreenilor în timpul negocierilor a fost pastrarea cât mai îndelungata a ambiguitatii în ceea ce priveste statutul nuclear , pentru maximizarea capacitatii de negociere .
din acest motiv , negociatorii nord-coreeni au refuzat cererile statelor unite pentru efectuarea unor inspectii .
daca inspectorii ar fi descoperit ca nord-coreenii nu au destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , americanii nu ar mai fi luat în serios coreea de nord , reducându-i acesteia din pârghiile de negociere .
în mod contrar , daca s-ar fi descoperit ca exista destul plutoniu pentru fabricarea armelor nucleare , statele unite nu ar mai fi fost de acord cu semnarea unui tratat .
în cele din urma , prin cadrul de acorduri s-au cerut inspectii speciale pentru a determina istoria nucleara a coreei de nord , înainte de livrarea componentelor cheie ale celor doua reactoare .
acest compromis a permis pastrarea ambiguitatii asupra capacitatilor nucleare nord-coreene si , implicit , mentinerea puterii de negociere asupra statelor unite , pentru înca opt ani .
actuala criza a început în octombrie 2002 , atunci când oficialii americani au confruntat coreea de nord cu dovezi ale unui program de îmbogatire a uraniului , ceea ce reprezinta a doua cale de fabricare a armelor nucleare .
oficialitatile nord-coreene au recunoscut existenta unui program nuclear si au început sa faca presiuni pentru ca statele unite sa negocieze cu ei , în ciuda insistentelor guvernului american de a nu & # 8220 ; recompensa & # 8221 ; aceasta atitudine prin concesii .
pe masura ce criza s-a agravat , administratia bush a continuat sa refuze negocieri directe cu coreea de nord , daca aceasta nu termina programul de îmbogatire a uraniului .
statele unite au încercat sa mobilizeze presiuni internationale asupra nord-coreenilor , si sa gaseasca un forum multilateral de consultari , care sa cuprinda si tarile importante din asia de est .
nord-coreenii spun ca doresc din partea statelor unite recunoasterea suveranitatii tarii lor , asigurarea securitatii si neobstructionarea dezvoltarii economice .
oficiali nord-coreeni au declarat ca , în ciuda faptului ca s-au retras din tratatul de neproliferare nucleara , nu intentioneaza sa produca arme nucleare & # 8220 ; în acest moment & # 8221 ; .
dar nu este înca clar daca programul de îmbogatire a uraniului ar trebui interpretat ca o dovada ca nord-coreenii au intentionat tot timpul sa nu respecte cadrul de acorduri , daca acesta ar fi fost o bariera în calea unei posibile rezilieri a acestor acorduri , sau daca nord-coreenii au vazut noi pârghii de negociere datorate erodarii cadrului de acorduri .
dificultatea stabilirii cu acuratete a intentiilor nucleare ale coreei de nord complica foarte mult sarcina de a formula o politica coordonata si efectiva de raspuns .
daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt hotarâti sa obtina capacitati de fabricare a armelor nucleare , atunci obiectivul politicii de raspuns ar trebui sa fie gasirea unei modalitati de a-i opri , sau cel putin de a diminua impactul pe care l-ar avea aceste arme asupra securitatii din asia de est si asupra regimului de neproliferare nucleara .
însa , daca liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa abandoneze programul de înarmare nucleara în schimbul asigurarii securitatii si asistentei economice , atunci obiectivul ar trebui sa fie încheierea unui acord prin care sa se confirme înlaturarea capacitatilor nucleare .
divergentele asupra motivelor care au stat la baza actiunilor nord-coreene au cauzat scindari referitoare la politica vizând coreea de nord atât în interiorul administratiei bush , cât si în cadrul legaturilor dintre statele unite si aliatii sai din asia si a relatiilor cu alti actori regionali , cum ar fi china si rusia .
serioase scindari în interiorul administratiei bush , referitoare la politica coreei de nord , au fost evidente înca de la instalarea acestei administratii .
unii oficiali au dorit sprijinirea politicii presedintelui sud-coreean , kim dae-jung , de continuare a negocierilor cu coreea de nord , care au început la sfârsitul administratiei clinton .
aceasta pozitie a reflectat convingerea ca liderii nord-coreeni ar putea renunta la importante capacitati militare , pentru un pret corect .
alti oficiali sustineau retragerea din cadrul de acorduri si adoptarea unei politici mai dure , orientate spre schimbarea regimului de la phenian .
aceasta pozitie se baza pe prezumtiile ca liderii nord-coreeni nu puteau fi de încredere în aderarea la anumite acorduri , si ca ei nu ar renunta niciodata la capacitatile nucleare .
aceste scindari au fost facute publice în martie 2001 , atunci când secretarul de stat , colin powell , a declarat ca statele unite se pregatesc sa reia negocierile cu coreea de nord , pentru a fi contrazis de catre bush trei zile mai târziu .
revizuirea ulterioara a politicii americane fata de coreea de nord a durat patru luni , în principal datorita luptei dintre moderatii si radicalii din interiorul administratiei bush .
au fost luate în considerare diferite optiuni , printre care si retragerea din cadrul de acorduri , însa , în final , s-a recomandat & # 8220 ; o mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; a cadrului , combinata cu eforturi de negociere a unui alt acord , referitor la programele de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune , la exporturile de astfel de rachete , si la desfasurarea fortelor conventionale .
mai buna implementare & # 8221 ; se referea la accelerarea eforturilor de a convinge coreea de nord sa accepte inspectii ale capacitatilor nucleare din partea agentiei internationale pentru energie atomica ( iaea ) .
scopul declarat era acela de a obtine amânarea constructiei reactoarelor , însa inspectiile erau destinate , de asemenea , înlaturarii ambiguitatii referitoare la capacitatile nucleare nord-coreene .
perioada dintre iunie 2001 si octombrie 2002 a fost marcata de contacte diplomatice sacadate între statele unite si coreea de nord , punctate de amenintari , insulte si incidente militare .
administratia bush si-a exprimat dorinta de a se întâlni cu liderii nord-coreeni & # 8220 ; oricând , oriunde si fara preconditii & # 8221 ; , însa eforturile de demarare a negocierilor au fost în mod repetat obstructionate de catre lipsurile si declaratiile guvernamentale .
deoarece administratia bush a reactionat la atacurile teroriste din 11 septembrie prin sublinierea legaturilor dintre terorism si armele de distrugere în masa , radicalii au facut presiuni pentru o politica mai dura referitoare la coreea de nord .
discursul tinut în 2002 de catre presedintele bush , privind starea natiunii , eticheta coreea de nord ca facând parte din & # 8220 ; axa raului & # 8221 ; , amenintând statele unite .
cu toate ca oficiali ai departamentului de stat continuau sa-si exprime dorinta de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , fragmente din reviziuirea situatiei nucleare a statelor unite au aratat ca pentagonul facea planuri pentru eventualitatea unor atacuri nucleare împotriva a sapte tari , inclusiv coreea de nord .
anumite scurgeri de informatii sugerau ca aceasta va fi urmatoarea tinta , dupa irak .
toate acestea au constituit impedimente ale importantei vizite pe care adjunctul secretarului de stat , james kelly , a efectuat-o la phenian , în octombrie 2002 .
interpretarile diferite ale intentiilor nord-coreene au dus , de asemenea , la deteriorari ale relatiilor sua cu aliatii sai , precum si ale celor cu china si rusia .
administratia bush a facut eforturi formale de a-si coordona pozitia fata de coreea de nord cu cea adoptata în aceeasi privinta de catre coreea de sud si japonia , prin vizite la nivel înalt si întâlniri regulate ale comisiilor de supraveghere .
cu toate acestea , eforturile au contat prea putin pentru rezolvarea fundamentala a identificarii intentiilor nord-coreene si a abordarilor diferite asupra politicilor de raspuns .
desi coreea de sud si japonia sunt îngrijorate de potentialul armamentului de distrugere în masa al coreei de nord , majoritatea analistilor sud-coreeni si japonezi considera ca obiectivul nord-coreenilor este acela de a negocia un acord cu statele unite , care sa includa garantii de securitate , relatii politice si economice mai bune , si asistenta financiara .
în timp ce americanii considera programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene ca o mare amenintare , coreea de sud apare relativ calma , poate si pentru ca majoritatea sud-coreenilor nu cred ca cei din nord vor folosi aceste arme împotriva lor .
coreea de sud , japonia , rusia si china vad refuzul statelor unite de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord ca o cauza a actualei crize nucleare .
cu toate ca aceste state sustin ca peninsula coreeana sa fie libera de arme nucleare , ele sunt sceptice ca mobilizarile internationale ale administratiei bush si refuzul acesteia de a negocia direct cu coreea de nord , vor avea rezultate pozitive .
totodata , ele sunt îngrijorate ca o marginalizare a phenianului poate duce coreea de nord la un comportament neprevizibil si periculos , ce s-ar putea solda cu un conflict militar .
disensiunile din interiorul administratiei bush au creat confuzii în rândul aliatilor sua si au subminat deseori initiativele sud-coreene si japoneze de a negocia cu coreea de nord .
de exemplu , în timpul vizitei sale de la washington , din martie 2001 , presedintele kim dae-jung a facut apel ca statele unite sa & # 8220 ; masoare oportunitatea & # 8221 ; de a negocia cu nord-coreenii , pentru a fi pus într-o situatie stânjenitoare atunci când bush a declarat , în timpul conferintei de presa comune , ca nu are încredere în kim jong ii .
multi sud-coreeni au speculat faptul ca divergentele din cadrul administratiei bush au fost intentionate , având scopul de a discredita politica coreei de sud si de a împiedica miscarea de unificare a peninsulei , ceea ce a dus la cresterea sentimentelor anti-americane si la tensionarea relatiilor bilaterale .
parerile diferite vizând aderarea coreei de nord la un acord negociat reprezinta principala cauza a dezacordurilor dintre statele unite si coreea de sud referitoare la pozitia adoptata fata de nord-coreeni .
pe de alta parte , aceste dezacorduri reflecta si dorinta seulului pentru o evolutie politica graduala a regimului nord-coreean , urmarind reducerea costurilor reunificarii , un obiectiv care este în contradictie cu dorinta anumitor oficiali americani , care încearca rasturnarea sistemului politic condus de catre kim jong ii .
care din urmatoarele abordari sunt corecte , depinde , în mare masura , de ceea ce doreste coreea de nord .
în stabilirea intentiilor nucleare nord-coreene , ar trebui sa se tina cont de cinci scenarii : liderii nord-coreeni au decis ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si ca americanii au în vedere schimbarea regimului , ce va fi precedata de atacuri militare .
din acest motiv , nord-coreenii au ajuns la concluzia ca armele nucleare reprezinta singurul mijloc pentru garantarea supravietuirii regimului în fata acestor amenintari .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu interpretarile serviciilor de informatii americane , care considera ca nord-coreenii au produs una sau doua arme nucleare în ultima jumatate a anilor & # 8217 ; 90 .
daca acest scenariu ar fi adevarat , probabil ca nici un acord pasnic nu ar putea opri programul de înarmare nucleara al coreei de nord , cu exceptia cazului în care liderii de la phenian s-ar razgândi în aceasta privinta .
statele unite , coreea de sud , japonia si china vor trebui fie sa recurga la actiuni militare si sa distruga arsenalul nuclear al coreei de nord , fie sa se obisnuiasca cu gândul la acesta si sa se bazeze pe intimidari si sisteme de rachete defensive .
multiplele încercari nord-coreene de obtinere a armamentului nuclear si eforturile de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune indica faptul ca regimul a alocat resurse considerabile în acest domeniu .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord a irosit un numar de oportunitati de accelerare a programelor de dezvoltare a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice .
daca nu ar fi semnat cadrul de acorduri , ar fi putut termina constructia reactoarelor de 50 si 200 megawati si ar fi reprocesat combustibilul pentru producerea de plutoniu .
pâna acum , regimul ar fi avut material fisionabil pentru cel putin 150-200 de arme nucleare .
de asemenea , coreea de nord a declarat un moratoriu unilateral asupra testelor de zbor a rachetelor cu raza lunga de actiune .
liderii nord-coreeni sunt dispusi sa renunte la programele nucleare si de dezvoltare a rachetelor , în schimbul unui acord care sa le garanteze securitatea si suveranitatea tarii lor acest scenariu sustine ca liderii nord-coreeni se simt amenintati de capacitatile militare superioare ale statelor unite si de eforturile americane de a izola economic si politic coreea de nord .
coreenii au urmarit dezvoltarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune pentru a-si dezvolta pârghii de negociere în crearea unor noi relatii cu statele unite , care sa asigure supravietuirea regimului si un cadru care sa permita reforme economice .
dovezile acestui scenariu includ declaratiile repetate ale liderilor nord-coreeni despre dorinta lor de a negocia cu statele unite restrictionarea armamentului nuclear si a rachetelor balistice , si limitarea exportului de astfel de rachete .
semnarea acordurilor , moratoriul testelor de zbor si discutiile cu administratia clinton indica faptul ca nord-coreenii doreau limitarea capacitatilor militare .
din aceasta perspectiva , eforturile coreei de nord de a dezvolta capacitati de îmbogatire a uraniului reprezinta încercari de a gasi un atu în negocierea pentru concesii economice si de securitate .
este posibil chiar ca aceste eforturi sa se fi dorit a fi descoperite de catre americani , pentru a fi & # 8220 ; vândute & # 8221 ; .
succesul precedent al nord-coreenilor de a convinge statele unite sa mareasca ajutorul alimentar în schimbul permiterii unor inspectii la o centrala de la kumchang-ri ( care au demonstrat ca aceasta nu detinea echipament nuclear ) , sugera ca un bluf nuclear nu ar fi exclus .
pe de alta parte , statele unite , japonia , coreea de sud si china ar dori sa vada ca nord-coreenii încep reforme politice si economice .
poarta catre relatii mai bune , care sa sprijine reformele economice , este larg deschisa , însa coreea de nord ezita sa paseasca prin ea .
amenintarile la adresa securitatii nu sunt necesare pentru a avea relatii mai bune , si chiar pot submina eforturile de îmbunatatire a acestora si a perspectivelor de cooperare economica .
de asemenea , intentiile demonstrate ale coreei de nord de a încalca tratatele internationale vor face greu de negociat viitoare acorduri , deoarece încrederea statelor unite a scazut .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc atât arme nucleare ( ca ultima garantie a securitatii ) , cât si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud conform acestui scenariu , liderii nord-coreeni au încercat sa-si mentina optiunile deschise prin derularea programelor de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice , cautând , în acelasi timp , îmbunatatirea relatiilor cu statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud .
o posibilitate ar fi ca liderii de la phenian sa vada aceste programe ca o asigurare pentru cazul în care nu ar putea negocia un acord cu statele unite referitor la securitatea regimului nord-coreean .
daca sua ar veni cu o oferta care sa garanteze supravietuirea regimului , coreea de nord ar fi dispusa sa renunte la programele de înarmare nucleara si de dezvoltare a rachetelor balistice .
în caz contrar , coreenii vor continua dezvoltarea unei forte operationale dotate cu arme nucleare si rachete balistice cu raza lunga de actiune .
o alta posibilitate ar fi ca liderii nord-coreeni sa fi intentionat sa triseze înca de la început .
acordurile de restrictionare a programelor si a exporturilor de rachete au fost create în scopul de a obtine avantaje financiare si de a câstiga timp pâna când coreea de nord sa dezvolte capacitati nucleare operative .
de partea cealalta , liderii de la phenian pot crede ca statele unite , japonia si coreea de sud vor trece cu vederea capacitatile nucleare mici si ambigue ale lor , si ca aceste state doresc oricum îmbunatatirea relatiilor .
politica dusa de sud-coreeni si recentele eforturi ale japonezilor de normalizare a relatiilor diplomatice , în ciuda temerilor legate de rachetele nord-coreene , reprezinta un motiv pentru acest scenariu .
atât scenariul asigurarii , cât si cel al nerespectarii angajamentelor , explica unele aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord , cum ar fi scala redusa a programului de înarmare nucleara , dorinta de acceptare a limitarii temporare a arsenalului nuclear ( facând , în acelasi timp , eforturi de dezvoltare a unor capacitati mai avansate ) , si dorinta de a avea relatii cu statele unite , japonia si , la o scara mai mica , cu coreea de sud .
aceste scenarii sugereaza ca liderii nord-coreeni fie au estimat în mod eronat reactia internationala de raspuns la politica lor nucleara , fie au considerat ca efectele negative pot fi depasite odata cu semnarea unui acord .
lideri sau factiuni nord-coreene sunt de acord ca armele nucleare sau negocierea unui acord cu statele unite nu reprezinta cea mai buna cale de asigurare a securitatii acest scenariu priveste comportamentul coreei de nord ca un rezultat al schimbarii puterii între diferite factiuni interne nord-coreene .
una din factiuni , orientata spre armata , poate crede ca armele nucleare sunt esentiale pentru securitatea coreei de nord ; cealalta factiune considera ca negocierea unui acord ofera mai multa securitate .
fiecare din aceste factiuni are abilitatea de a întreprinde actiuni internationale în mod independent .
acest scenariu ar putea explica de ce , în unele cazuri , coreea de nord coopereaza si cauta semnarea unor acorduri , iar în alte cazuri submineaza într-un mod agresiv negocierile .
de asemenea , ofera o posibila explicatie pentru programul de îmbogatire a uraniului urmarit de catre nord-coreeni .
deoarece unele beneficii promise în urma acordurilor au fost amânate ( ca , de exemplu , aprovizionarea reactoarelor si încercarile de normalizare a relatiilor cu statele unite ) , balanta puterii de la phenian s-ar fi putut schimba , îndepartându-se de la respectarea angajamentelor , catre eforturi de dezvoltare a armamentului nuclear , pentru asigurarea securitatii coreei de nord .
pe lânga acestea , eforturile precedente ale nord-coreenilor de a obtine tehnologii de îmbogatire a uraniului si echipamente de productie din pakistan , sugereaza o decizie de nerespectare a acordurilor sau de a face presiuni pentru rezilierea lor .
desi acestea ar putea explica comportamentul coreei de nord , stilul nord-corean de negociere demonstreaza câteodata atente eforturi de a controla atmosfera negocierilor si de a maximiza presiunile asupra partenerilor prin actiuni si declaratii bine coordonate .
acest tip de control este dificil de explicat în cazul scenariului factional .
de asemenea , este important de mentionat ca schimbarea balantei puterii între factiunile de la phenian poate face grea , daca nu imposibila , negocierea unui acord durabil .
liderii nord-coreeni doresc arme nucleare si rachete balistice pentru actiuni ofensive împotriva coreei de sud toate scenariile precedente pleaca de la premisa ca obiectivul principal al liderilor nord-coreeni este apararea , asigurarea supravietuirii actualului regim .
o presupunere alternativa este ca nord-coreenii vad în armele nucleare un mijloc ofensiv pentru obtinerea unificarii peninsulei în termenii lor .
alianta militara a statelor unite cu coreea de sud este principalul obstacol pentru o reunificare prin forta .
acest scenariu subliniaza riscul potential reprezentat de armele nucleare si de rachetele balistice cu raza lunga de actiune nord-coreene pentru teritoriul statelor unite , daca sua ar interveni ca raspuns la o invazie sau o coercitie militara asupra coreei de sud .
aceasta problema a fost ridicata de nenumarate ori de catre sustinatorii sistemului defensiv cu rachete , care afirma ca un stat paria ( & # 8220 ; rogue state & # 8221 ; ) ar putea folosi capacitati nucleare pentru a împiedica statele unite sa intevina într-un conflict .
libertatea americana de actiune , spun ei , poate fi mentinuta numai prin rachete defensive .
acest scenariu este în concordanta cu alte aspecte ale doctrinelor militare si a desfasurarilor de trupe nord-coreene .
majoritatea unitatilor militare ale coreei de nord sunt situate în apropierea zonei demilitarizate , fiind pozitionate si antrenate pentru operatiuni ofensive .
capacitatile de fabricare a armelor chimice si biologice , masive bombardamente ale artileriei si operatiuni ale fortelor speciale ar putea fi folosite pentru a sprijini o invazie a sudului .
din aceasta perspectiva , interesul manifestat de coreea de nord pentru negocierea unui acord prin care sa renunte la armele nucleare si la rachetele balistice , ar putea fi în scopul mascarii eforturilor de achizitionare a unor noi capacitati ofensive .
pe de alta parte , coreea de nord spera ca , din cauza ei , sa apara intrigi între statele unite si coreea de sud , care sa slabeasca sau sa dizolve alianta dintre cele doua state .
( declaratiile sud-coreenilor conform carora seulul ar trebui sa joace rolul de mediator între phenian si washington sugereaza faptul ca o astfel de strategie ar putea avea o doza de succes . )
un contra-argument al acestui scenariu ar fi faptul ca abilitatea nord-coreenilor de a lansa o invazie asupra sudului s-a diminuat ca urmare a prabusirii economiei .
coreea de sud a continuat modernizarea dotarilor militare si a programelor de instruire , în timp ce coreea de nord nu a importat sisteme noi militare de mai bine de zece ani .
armata nord-coreeana duce lipsa de piese de schimb pentru sistemele importate , iar limitarea aprovizionarii cu carburanti a influentat programele de instruire .
daca obiectivul coreei de nord ar fi fost invadarea coreei de sud , probabil ar fi facut eforturi de obtinere a armelor nucleare si a rachetelor balistice cu raza lunga de actiune mult mai devreme , în loc sa închida elemente cheie ale capacitatilor de producere a plutoniului si sa declare încetarea testelor de zbor a rachetelor .
cu toate ca acest scenariu nu poate fi exclus , principala & # 8220 ; dovada & # 8221 ; care îl sustine este faptul ca anumite capacitati nucleare ar putea , teoretic , ameninta statele unite .
fiecare din aceste cinci scenarii explica anumite aspecte ale comportamentului coreei de nord .
din nefericire , este greu de spus care este corect .
daca se intentioneaza ca armele nucleare sa fie folosite ca optiuni militare ofensive , atunci , cel mai probabil , oficialii nord-coreeni vor apela la masuri înselatoare pentru a-si ascunde intentiile .
daca ei au decis ca armele nucleare le sunt necesare pentru supravietuirea regimului , atunci crearea impresiei ca agresiunea statelor unite le-a împins catre un program nuclear le-ar putea îmbunatati imaginea internationala .
( coreea de nord a avut succes în convingerea unor guverne asiatice ca intransigenta americanilor este în mare masura cauza actualei crize . )
pe de alta parte , chiar daca coreea de nord ar fi pregatita sa negocieze renuntarea la capacitatile nucleare , ea tot ar avea motive ca sa apara sovaitoare si agresiva , chiar neprevizibila , pentru a obtine avantaje maxime în timpul negocierilor .
oficialii americani au încercat sa creeze politici de abordare care sa sublinieze dificultatea stabilirii intentiilor nord-coreene .
politica revizionista din 1998 si 1999 , condusa de fostul secretar al apararii , william perry , sugera o strategie pe doua cai pentru a testa intentiile coreei de nord .
perry a recomandat oferirea catre nord-coreeni a alegerii între alternativa unui angajament mai strâns si relatii mai bune cu statele unite , si alternativa continuarii ostilitatilor si a politicii de îngradire . & # 8220 ; prin încorporarea a doua cai , strategia creata în revizuire evita dependenta de conjuncturi referitoare la intentiile sau comportamentul nord-coreenilor , si nu cauta , nici nu depinde de succesul sau , o transformare a sistemului intern [ nord-coreean ] . & # 8221 ; dificultatea în aceasta abordare îl reprezinta faptul ca criteriul cheie dupa care se va judeca daca coreea de nord îsi va respecta angajamentele ( renuntarea la armele de distrugere în masa într-o maniera verificabila ) va cere nord-coreenilor sa renunte la atuurile lor în procesul de negociere , înca de la început .
cadrul de acorduri a încercat sa rezolve aceasta problema prin structurarea angajamentelor ca o serie de pasi reciproci , prin care sa se obtina , într-un final , transparenta în istoria nucleara a coreei de nord .
cu toate acestea , amânarile în contructia reactoarelor si eroziunea sprijinului politic al statelor unite pentru cadrul de acorduri înseamna ca importante aspecte ale acordului , cum ar fi îmbunatatirea relatiilor economice si politice dintre sua si coreea de nord , nu au fost pe deplin implementate .
politica promovata de catre william perry prevedea un proces similar , & # 8220 ; pas cu pas si reciproc & # 8221 ; , ca un mijloc de rezolvare a problemei , însa aceasta abordare nu a fost niciodata pusa total în practica .
statele unite trebuie sa abordeze criza curenta printr-o strategie care sa accepte incapacitatea de stabilire a intentiilor nord-coreene .
daca oricare din cele cinci scenarii de mai sus ar fi corect , strategia americana ar trebui sa testeze intentiile coreene , fara a compromite interesele securitatii statelor unite .
la acest moment al crizei , sua are practic patru optiuni : utilizarea fortei militare pentru a ataca infrastructura nucleara nord-coreeana , mobilizarea presiunilor internationale împotriva coreei de nord , asteptarea , si negocierea .
atacurile militare se pare ca vor fi excluse , datorita incapacitatii actuale a sua de a distruge orice arma nucleara sau stoc de plutoniu nord-coreean , a opozitiei ferme din partea aliatilor si a altor state din regiune , si datorita unor posibile represalii din partea coreei de nord , prin atacarea sudului .
politica curenta a statelor unite este de a orchestra presiuni internationale pentru a forta coreea de nord sa renunte la programul de înarmare nucleara .
aceasta abordare are putine sanse de succes , pentru ca unele state cheie , cum ar fi china si coreea de sud , nu doresc marginalizarea coreei de nord , deoarece ar duce fie la colaps economic , fie la raspunsuri militare .
a treia optiune pentru statele unite ar fi sa astepte , în speranta ca liderii de la phenian îsi vor modera cerintele , si vor accepta negocieri multilaterale , în termeni impusi de catre sua .
aceasta se pare ca este pozitia de facto a statelor unite , cel putin pe durata potentialului razboi din irak .
a patra optiune ar fi acceptarea cererilor coreei de nord pentru negocieri bilaterale cu sua , si încercarea de obtinere a unui acord care sa urmareasca interesele americane .
impasul curent nu va dura la nesfârsit .
daca nu se va ajunge la un acord , este probabil ca nord-coreeni vor reprocesa combustibilul achizitionat si vor cumpara pltunoi pentru înca patru sau sase arme nucleare .
odata reprocesarea completa ( ce va dura de la patru la sase luni ) , statele unite vor pierde optiunea unor atacuri militare asupra stocurilor de materiale coreene .
cu sucienta materie pentru obtinerea a cinci pâna la opt arme nucleare , coreea de nord va avea noi optiuni , printre care si testarea nucleara , pozitionari operationale de arme nucleare sau vânzarea de material fisionabil .
mai mult , este foarte putin probabil ca liderii nord-coreeni vor astepta pasiv ca presiunile internationale sau problemele economice interne sa duca la rasturnarea regimului lor .
în schimb , ei vor apela la actiuni de provocare pentru a agrava criza , în scopul cresterii presiunii asupra statelor unite de a negocia un acord .
politica curenta a administratiei bush are costuri semnificante .
pe lânga permisiunea acordata coreei de nord de a-si îmbunatati capacitatile nucleare , politica americana a creat tensiuni serioase în cadrul aliantelor cu coreea de sud si japonia , precum si în relatiile cu china si rusia .
refuzul negocierilor , venit din partea statelor unite , si nu a nord-coreenilor , este considerat a fi de vina pentru agravarea crizei .
daca statele unite continua în aceeasi maniera , este foarte probabil ca nord-coreeni îsi vor pozitiona armele nucleare & # 8220 ; la vedere & # 8221 ; , ceea ce va avea consecinte pentru stabilitatea regionala si pentru regimul de neproliferare nucleara .
intransigenta statelor unite va fi vinovata pentru aceasta , iar americanii vor fi pusi într-o situatie mult mai dificila .
din acest punct de vedere , este rezonabila cautarea negocierii unui acord .
indiferent de rezultatul final , negocierile vor avea imediat valoare politica .
în primul rând , statele unite ar trebui sa insiste asupra unei opriri verificabile a activitatilor nord-coreene în timpul negocierilor .
aceasta ar stopa încercarile coreei de nord de majorare a capacitatilor nucleare , si s-ar câstiga timp .
în schimb , sua îsi vor lua angajamentul de a nu ataca coreea de nord în timpul negocierilor , o concesie pe care administratia bush a oferit-o deja , fara a primi nimic în schimb .
în al doilea rând , negocierile ar detensiona într-o oarecare masura relatiile dintre sua si aliatii sai , deschizând calea catre o politica comuna vizând coreea de nord .
daca negocierile pentru un acord verificabil si acceptabil ar esua , statele unite ar câstiga mai usor sprijinul international pentru o abordare mai dura a problemei nord-coreene .
în al treilea rând , negocierile ar reduce capacitatea coreei de nord de a agrava criza , permitând statelor unite sa ia initiativa si sa-si concentreze atentia asupra armelor de distrugere în masa ale nord-coreenilor si asupra modalitatilor de obtinere a unui acord .
de asemenea , negocierile ar reduce posibilitatea unei provocari militare nord-coreene în mijlocul unui razboi în irak .
tinând cont de toate acestea , negocierile au un mare potential de atingere a obiectivului unei peninsule coreene libera de arme nucleare .
negocierea unui acord acceptabil nu va fi usoara .
faptul ca nord-coreenii au încalcat cadrul de acorduri si alte angajamente de neproliferare nucleara , înseamna ca statele unite si alte state participante la negocierea unui nou acord vor cere masuri stringente de verificare a respectarii termenilor de catre coreea de nord .
însa , în mod paradoxal , suspiciunile interne asupra intentiilor nord-coreene vor permite negociatorilor americani sa insiste pentru masuri drastice de verificare , ca o conditie necesara a unui acord , si aceasta mai ales daca va fi nevoie de sprijinul congresului pentru a finanta acest acord .
chiar daca negocierile vor esua , statele unite vor fi într-o pozitie favorabila datorita faptului ca au încercat sa trateze cu nord-coreenii .
next noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ? © 2003 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress diocese of duluth - catholic church in northeastern minnesota don ’ t feel bad if you missed the first weekend of garrison ’ s dickens village festival .
geneva , switzerland : occupier of gulnara karimova ’ s home finds rare copy of koran kyrgyzstan : elections to pick bishkek and osh mayors set for january 15 turkey worst jailer of journalists for second year in a row bbc journalist reports in usa on “ forced sterilization ” in uzbekistan uzbek president ’ s daughter gives “ open and harsh ” interview to a turkish newspaper popular darakchi and sogdiana papers on verge of closure in uzbekistan december 30 , 2013 napier , new zealand -- the forecast on the eve of the 2nd one day international between new zealand and the west indies was right as the match was abandoned at the time of what would have been the end of the first innings .
so bad was the rain at the start of the afternoon ...
rejoicewith us as we continue our celebrations in honor of the canonization of st. kateri tekakwitha on october 21 , 2012 .
the diocese of duluth sent five representativesto rome for this festive occasion .
they were joined by 800 , 000 other pilgrims in rome for the canonization ofour seven new saints .
to bishop paul sirba , the bureau of catholic indian missions office , and the many contributions frommembers of the diocese of duluthand elsewhere we thank youfor this wonderful gift and assure you that you were present in our prayers as we made our pilgrimagein italy .
you were there as we received the special blessings fromthe holy father and at eachmass .
may st. kateri tekakwitha continue to walk with us as we strive to imitate her in reaching out to the young , our elders , and the sick and hold close to our hearts her devotions to jesus on the cross and to his mother .
reservations within the diocese of duluth : bois forte reservationfond du lac reservationgrand portage reservationleech lake reservationmille lacs reservation tackle avoidable blindness .
the challenge is to cross the length of the record being attempted by sir ranulph fiennes is a dangerous endeavour , but an the plan is to begin the expedition on the equinox of march 21st 2013 , temperatures .
dr mike stroud has been expeditions with sir ranulph before , and had this to say about the attempt .
" the challenge is whether it is possible to operate and be out there in the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of the year . ”
even for the boat journey to the pacific coast of antarctica sir on the icy continent this will not be enough .
new equipment is being invented fiennes was the first man to cross the entire continent of antarctica on foot , a record he set back in 1993 when he was 49 .
now sir ranulph is 68 , but his age old .
if you still are lucky enough to be able to walk around not stooped , no attention to exploring .
his list of records is far reaching and impressive , sleds fell through thin ice , and he had to pull them out using his hands .
all his fingers on his left hand were severely damaged by frostbite , and he had to abandon the attempt .
amputation of his fingertips was inevitable , but his back as possible .
sir ranulph couldn ’ t wait , and instead used a fretsaw to why he wanted to make this new record attempt , sir ranulph answered , " we do it ahead for sir ranulph and his team is a going to be an ultimate test of this was not the reason for the decision being made to attempt the winter rivalry is a good reason to head to the coldest place on earth at the coldest time of year is up for debate , but the challenge has now been set , and only time will tell if sir ranulph can accomplish the extraordinary feat he has set “ oriental bazaar ” is an attractive forum for designing a new format of inter-ethnic communication ” – said boris vinogradskiy ( chinese culture connoisseur , author and civil society activist ) in support of the new project .
center resident and fitness advocate charmayne leinius has a passion for walking and for helping others .
kacper niburski the silhouette when i was eight , i was asked what i wanted to be when i grew up .
as a boy with a flawless mushroom cut , a wide-set grin , and teeth that could make a jigsaw puzzle look straight , i was insatiably interested in the world .
i wanted to learn and learn and [ ... ]
when i saw kim ’ s convenience at theatre aquarius on friday evening , i couldn ’ t help but think about my own family for the full two hours .
i am not korean , i don ’ t live in regent park , nor does my family own a convenience store .
but the whole time i felt that apa , janet , umma and jung [ ... ]
palika kohli the silhouette the following books serve as a guide to defining my version of the “ coming-of-age ” genre .
what they have in common is that , in one way or another , they have all resonated with me at some point in the past six months .
they are listed in as chronological an order as i [ ... ]
get involved „ the incomes of the physician should be three times higher than the average salary in the country “ interview with prof mircea cinteză ph. d | cadran politic prof. mircea cinteză , ph.d. , a prominent cardiologist with extensive experience , is a professor of cardiology and internal medicine with the cardiology and internal medicine department of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university in bucharest ; head of the cardiology ward of the bucharest university emergency hospital ; since 1996 he has been a member of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university board of professors ; between 1997 and 2007 he was the chairman of the romanian college of physicians ; in 2004-2008 he was the dean of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university ; in 2004-2005 he was the public health minister ; in 2004-2011 he was a member of the senate of romania .
« previous „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză next valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu © 2014 laurentian publishingaggravated robbery suspect arrested on the bee of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs世界新聞網-世界播 fun 室 灣區公交費調整 路路通一卡搞定 記者陳巧倫 ／ 屋崙報導 正耀 播報 灣區大都會運輸委員會 （ mtc ） 提醒民眾 ， 2014年灣區各運輸系統的票價有小幅度調整 ， 鼓勵民眾多使用路路通票卡因應車費變動 。 灣區公交費調整 路路通一卡搞定 。 捷運今年1月1日起調整票價 ， 平均全線車票將調漲19分 ， 漲幅5.2 % ， 以協助捷運局分攤添購新車廂 ， 以及其他重要維護工程成本 。 但捷運的高乘量優惠票價 （ high value discount ticket ） 仍維持45元 （ 價值48元 ） 和60元 （ 價值64元 ） 。 路路通卡能夠自動儲值 ， 轉換不同公共運輸工具中使用同一張卡 ， 提供無間隙運輸服務 。 各項運輸系統票價調整及規定改變 ， 都可在clippercard.com獲得更多資訊 。 科羅拉多大麻熱賣 美反毒戰堪憂 聯合報 ╱ 編譯馮克芸 ／ 綜合報導 美國科羅拉多州一日起成為全美第一個可合法販售娛樂用大麻的州 ， 美聯社報導 ， 當天科州有八個城鎮的至少廿四家大麻店開賣 ， 部分店家門口大排長龍 。 未來如果科州開禁未造成負面影響 ， 全美至少有十五州將跟進 ， 美國的 「 反毒戰 」 政策面臨考驗 。 美國民眾一日在科羅拉多州丹佛市選購不同品種的大麻 。 （ 法新社 ） 科羅拉多州已核發三百四十八張娛樂用大麻的零售執照 ， 這些商店可向廿一歲以上科州民眾出售最高廿八公克的大麻 ， 如為外州居民 ， 每次購買上限為七公克 。 科州與華盛頓州在前年十一月透過公投 ， 讓娛樂用大麻合法 ， 華盛頓州將在今年稍晚開賣 。 華郵引述卡內基美隆大學毒品政策專家考金斯的話說 ， 美國過去並未開放合法買賣娛樂用大麻 ， 因此現在看不出未來美國毒品政策將如何發展 。 許多支持大麻合法買賣的人都認為 ， 合法管理會比所費不貲的 「 反毒戰 」 更有效 。 & # 160 ; 可點視頻 影片來自聯合影音網 美科羅拉多州 娛樂用大麻開賣 / 尤寶琪 & # 160 ; 1025 ally 電影專欄 王牌冤家 eternal sunshine of the spotless mind ally 電影專欄 王牌冤家 eternal sunshine of the spotless mind 主持人 : 正耀 來賓 : ally fan 范時瑜 范時瑜 ally fan 在台北是 ntu 外文系女生 在紐約是 nyu 電影研究生 ， 變身 wj 週刊記者 在舊金山是翻譯 abc 和教書的字匠 對我來說 ， 台北是青梅竹馬 紐約是初戀情人 舊金山是終身伴侶 但其實 ， 我的夢中情人在天涯海角 在這個世界 ， 我是用筆建構 「 影字城市 」 的旅人 & # 8230 ; & # 160 ; 今天節目中討論2004年的電影 & # 8220 ; 王牌冤家 eternal sunshine of the spotless mind & # 8221 ; 影片海報 ( 網路圖片 ) & # 160 ; 如果你沒看過 & # 8230 ; . 就可惜啦 ! 演 [ & # 8230 ; ] 職棒季後賽 運動家隊奪分區冠軍 專訪 劉庠 談小規模球隊如何生存 小市場的奧克蘭運動家隊 , 如何能拿分區冠軍 ? 如何又能經營下去 ? 聽聽劉庠的分析 小本經營卻拿下重要成就的運動家隊確定在美聯西區封王 ， 打進季後賽 ， 再現 「 魔球 」 傳奇 。 （ 美聯社 ） & # 160 ; 你吃了黴 ？ ！ 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 食物發霉就應該丟掉嗎 ？ 如果把發霉的地方切掉 ， 剩下的部分還可以吃嗎 ？ 有些黴菌吃了很安全 ， 有些則對人體有害 。 製作藍乳酪所需要的黴菌是安全的 ， 然而有些食物上毛茸茸的黴菌則是有毒的 ， 一般而言 ， 生長在穀類上的黴菌是最毒的 。 發黴的橙 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴果醬 ( 網路圖片 ) 除了肉眼可看見的菌體之外 ， 線狀的菌絲與黴菌產生的毒素可穿透食物 ， 且烹煮無法破壞黴菌毒素 ， 對於體質較弱的人特別危險 。 發黴水果 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 你的肝該減肥了嗎 ？ 【 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 】 你可能知道 ， 長期大量飲酒會造成肝臟受損 ， 甚至可能會造成脂肪肝 （ 醫學名詞稱為酒精性脂肪肝炎 ） 。 然而 ， 若不常喝酒 ， 甚至完全不喝酒 ， 還是可能罹患脂肪肝 。 因為非酒精性脂肪肝的盛行率急速增加 ， 最近已成為媒體的關注焦點 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 董氏基金會 ) & # 160 ; 非酒精性脂肪肝是一連串身體功能失序所產生的疾病 ； 當肝臟處理脂肪 （ 三酸甘油酯 ） 有問題時 ， 就會發生此疾病 ， 而導致脂肪堆積在肝臟組織中 。 非酒精性脂肪肝是 「 沉默 」 的疾病 ， 很少會有跡象或症狀 ， 也不太會出現併發症 ， 但可能會隨著時間惡化 ， 造成疲勞 、 虛弱 、 食慾不振 、 噁心 、 腹痛或黃疸 （ 皮膚和眼睛發黃 ） 等症狀 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 號角月報澳門版 ) продинфо - новости : беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана - продовольственный рынок беларуси беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана12 августа 2010татарстан рассматривает беларусь в качестве основного поставщика картофеля на свой рынок .
об этом сообщил сегодня журналистам в минске президент татарстана рустам минниханов , передает белта .
на первом этапе в татарстан из беларуси планируется поставить 40 тыс.т картофеля .
в президент татарстана особо подчеркнул , что страна заинтересована в закупке и белорусского зерна . & # 34 ; ситуация с аномальной жарой отрицательно сказалась на сельском хозяйстве татарстана , особенно на тех регионах , где развито растениеводство & # 34 ; , - рассказал он .
в связи с этим татарстан рассматривает возможность закупки в беларуси от 100 тыс.т до 500 тыс.т зерна в разной форме - фураж , комбикорма и т.д. & # 34 ; потребности в фуражном зерне у нас большие , и мы рассчитываем в этом плане на беларусь & # 34 ; , - сказал в свою очередь премьер-министр беларуси сергей сидорский заверил в том , что беларусь полностью обеспечит тот заказ , который сформирует татарстан .
это прежде всего поставки картофеля .
беларусь также выполнит договоренности по поставкам на оптовые склады татарстана автомобильной техники . & # 34 ; помимо этого мы сегодня обсудили вопросы критических товарных групп - коснулись вопросов поставок сахара , сельскохозяйственных ярмарок в татарстане .
президент этой страны уже взял на себя обязательства по содействию в проведении таких мероприятий .
по словам сергея сидорского , на осенних ярмарках беларусь будет торговать основными видами сельхозпродукции , в том числе капустой , свеклой , картофелем .
планируется также , что в татарстане будут представлены и товары легкой промышленности беларуси . & # 34 ; у них высокое качество и the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
first , there ’ s the headgear — a worn , leather cowboy hat that stays as firmly on his pony-tailed head as indiana jones ’ fedora .
there ’ s also a bit of cowboy swagger in the first-generation greek-american , as well as an infectious enthusiasm for his work .
he ’ s quite eager to jump down onto his belly , arms and legs swinging , to illustrate how a burrowing critter that lived in a warmer antarctica long ago might have scurried and clawed through its underground home .
peter flaig is the team ’ s expert on those sediments .
his job is to put the trace fossils into context .
for example , if hasiotis spies what be believes are the swimming trails of a fish — where it might have settled on the sediment , leaving an imprint — flaig must determine if the sediment deposits indeed belong to a lake .
on " the castle ” outcrop , hasiotis is shouting for flaig , and a few expletives pepper his exclamations as he scrambles underneath an overhang on the castle-like outcrop near wahl glacier , which looks nearly sheer from this vantage point , a few bare rocks jutting out from the ice .
the blackened rock he displayed previously back at camp can only be one thing — fossilized charred wood .
the most well-accepted story of the period suggests that the climate shifted from wet and warm to dry and warmer at the boundary .
but those interpretations are inherently biased , based on the evidence at hand .
sedimentologists like flaig assume the triassic dried out based on the sand that filled the basin .
but so much of the evidence is covered by ice in today ’ s antarctica .
" trace fossils are like fingerprints .
they don ’ t tell you genus or species , but it can tell you horseshoe crab , ” he says .
" we ’ ve hit the jackpot on this trip between the tracks of animals we don ’ t even know about , the horseshoe crabs , and the small burrowing therapsids or reptiles . ”
nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map sawatdee closes two restaurants fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 16 pm est newly remodeled hyatt place sold for $ 32.6m fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 16 pm est longtime waseca lawmaker rod searle dies at 93 sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 16 pm est cities at odds with minnesota ’ s gun law sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 16 pm est 2 pulled from car after plunge into icy waters in winona sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 16 pm est car plunges into icy waters in winona sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 16 pm est new bagamoyo port to restore town 's lost glory na malela kassim today , bagamoyo is a centre for dhow sailboat building .
the department of antiquities in tanzania is working to maintain the ruins of the colonial era in and around bagamoyo and to revitalize the town . & ldquo ; the bagamoyo port construction comes while tanzania is losing a lot of trade and commerce because of inefficiency at the port of dar es salaam , ’ ’ said likwelile during the occasion of signing two framework agreements and two exchange of letters between the tanzania government and the people ’ s republic of china . & ldquo ; i can assure you that dar es salaam port will be overwhelmed by cargo in three years .
we need to build bagamoyo port to relieve dar es salaam port , & rdquo ; said dr mwakyembe .
he was responding to concerns raised by some parliamentarians over why the government wants to build bagamoyo port .
nit to set up study centre to reduce road accidents na prosper makene however , the don underscored that nit is in the process of opening up a national transport research centre so as to diagnose why accidents occur and find out solutions on how to deal with the problem .
according to our sources , tullow oil is to appoint a managing director of its affiliate ( ... )
guinea ’ s government has retained the services of sheila khama , who heads the extractive ( ... )
azerbaijan hopes for a peaceful rearrangement of sectors of the caspian shelf turkmen tv dropped the logo of the golden profile of the late president turkmenistan : gurbankuly berdymuhammedov is not going to sell gas to russia alone neutralny turkmenistan : forecasts on major gas reserves in the republic are confirmed president gurbankuly berdymuhammedov was elected the head of the people 's council election of the president stirred the usually placid turkmen society the carnegie moscow center organized a roundtable conference on turkmenistan , the problems it is facing and the future it is heading for the turkmen establishment compiled the list of candidates for president .
the kremlin won the first round of the battle for turkmenistan turkmenistan : the opposition has no objections to a provisional government the population is paying for what is supposed to be free the turkmenbashi confesses that the state of health does not permit him to keep fasts arctic weather bears down on us midwest , northeasthuffington postmidwestern us warned of ' life-threatening ' temperatures of up to minus 51 celsiusmercopresssee realtime coveragesee all 67 sourcesrelated united states of america < li > cans of red bull < / li > katy perry < a href = " http : / / www.thesmokinggun.com / documents / celebrity / katy-perry-concert-rider-138490 " > chauffeurs are not allowed to start a conversation with perry < / a > and are not to stare at the backseat through the rearview mirror .
dressing room has to be draped in cream or soft pink .
< li > three packs of gum in three different flavors < / li > jay z and beyonce < strong > jay z : < / strong >
no styrofoam or plastic goods shall be used in preparation of food , because of the state of the environment .
< li > a small jar of kosher dill pickle spears < / li > marilyn manson < li > a < a href = " http : / / www.contactmusic.com / news-article / manson-requests-bald-headed.-toothless-hooker " > bald-headed , toothless hooker < / a > ( as a joke ? ! ) < / li >
eccb takeover of anguilla banks could end up in court le pasteur gideon mukungubila a déclaré à la bbc que ses partisans ont mené les attaques de ce lundi à kinshasa , et ailleurs en rdc .
selon gideon mukungubila , un leader religieux qui se présente comme un prophète , la violence était une riposte au harcèlements menés par les forces de ‚ c ’ est la 5ème fois que les frères ont été attaqués ; ils ont décidé de il a démenti qu ’ il s ’ agissait d ’ une tentative de coup d ’ etat .
lundi matin , des assaillants se réclamant de mukungubila ont pris en otage peu après , des tirs ont résonné à l 'aéroport international de ndjili et à a lubumbashi , capitale de la province du katanga , des tirs ont également été selon le porte-parole du gouvernement lambert mende , la situation est à présent sous contrôle , et plus de 70 assaillants ont été tués par les forces de la situation est à présent sous contrôle , selon le gouvernement .
" ça s 'est alourdit .
plus de 70 assaillants ont été tués , dont une cinquantaine à kinshasa .
trois de nos éléments ont été tués à kinshasa , et on compte deux blessés civils à ndjili " , a déclaré à l 'afp lambert mende , porte-parole il est aussi un critique virulent de l ’ accord de paix signé ce mois-ci avec la rébellion du m23 dans l ’ est de la rdc , accusant le gouvernement d ’ avoir cédé la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco a annoncé avoir mis ses troupes en état d 'alerte après les attaques .
toutes les compagnies aériennes ont suspendu leurs vols nationaux et god and the folly of faith : the incompatibility of science and religion youth rugby : sevenoaks u10s impressed in the qualifying round of the allianz cup on the new all-weather pitch of premiership team saracens.t ... briefed his indian counterpart on japans national security strategy and the ’ polar vortex ’ brings coldest temps in decades mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 20 am est central banks split on stimulus in 2014 as fed tapers mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 00 am est dennis rodman : north korea isn ’ t so bad sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 50 pm est soccer legend eusebio dies at age 71 sun jan 5 , 2014 7 : 40 pm est crop circle : no , it wasn ’ t aliens , it was marketers mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est at least two injured in nyc high-rise fire mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est malala 's voice stronger , not silenced sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 10 am est man who pleaded guilty to slapping toddler aboard atlanta-bound flight to be sentenced mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 40 am est dozens of pilot whales die on new zealand beach mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est german leader merkel injured in ski accident mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 50 am est dealbook : jpmorgan chase nears a $ 2 billion deal in a case tied to madoff sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 00 pm est iraq pm urges militants ’ expulsion mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est slain nev. teacher named ’ citizen of the year ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est obama ’ s day : no public events mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 00 am est the fix : harry reids advice to republicans -- and why they wont follow it mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 50 am est violence , low turnout mar elections in bangladesh sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 50 pm est in burma , a former rebel now fights for peace sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 50 pm est in midst of the big freeze , obama to exert presidential powers on ’ global warming ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 07 : 20 am est va hospital ’ s release of delirious veteran latest in string of failures mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 20 am est mtandao watoa angalizo kwa vyama , taasisi kuhusu rasimu ya katiba mpya kajuguti wasubiri bilioni 12 / - kupisha ujenzi wa uwanja wa ndege moto wateketeza nyumba 29 , nguo ya bibi harusi na mapambo yake , pemba hongera rage kukubali kutii agizo tff tangu novemba 19 , mwaka jana , simba imekuwa katika mvutano mkubwa wa uongozi baada ya viongozi kugawanyika makundi mawili na hatimaye kufikia hatua ya kutangaza kupinduana habari kamili kweli jk , bunge katiba mpya liweke mbele maslahi ya taifa acha nipayuke : lowassa ataweza ana nini , kikwete anashindwa ana nini ?
hekima za mlevi wa canada : nipeni wizara ya mali ya siri na utajiri katibu mkuu wa chadema , dk wilbroad slaa akitoa tamko la kamati kuu ya chama hicho kwa waandishi wa habari , dar es salaam jana kuhusu wanachama wake waandamizi dk .
kitila mkumbo ( aliyekuwa mjumbe wa kamati hiyo ) na mwenyekiti wa mkoa wa arusha , samson mwigamba .
kushoto ni katibu mwenezi wa chama hicho , john mnyika na mwanasheria mkuu wa chadema tundu lissu .
picha : selemani mpochi mwigamba , kitila ' out ' chadema chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimewatimua , dk .
kitila mkumbo na samson mwigamba , huku kikiwataka wanachama kutoshiriki mikutano ya nje na ya ndani au shughuli nyingine yoyote ya kisiasa itakayofanywa na aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa chama hicho , zitto kabwe na mawakala wake kwa jina la chadema habari kamili wafanyabiashara wa madini waelimishwa walipe kodi mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) na ofisi ya madini kanda ya kaskazini zimeanza mchakato wa kuwaelimisha wafanyabiashara na wachimbaji wa madini kuhusu umuhimu wa kulipa kodi na matumizi sahihi ya mfumo wa malipo kwa kutumia mashine za elektroniki ( efd ) habari kamili mkwasa awashukia okwi , kiiza kocha mkuu wa mabingwa watetezi wa ligi kuu ya tanzania bara , yanga , boniface mkwasa , amekerwa na utovu wa nidhamu wa nyota wawili wa kimataifa wa uganda , emmanuel okwi na hamis kiiza , hivyo kuhitaji kufanyika kikao na uongozi wa klabu hiyo ili kuwajadili habari kamili abiria chukueni hadhari , kuna uporaji , udhalilishaji , kuumizwa : abiria jijini dar es salaam wanakabiliwa na hatari kubwa ya usafiri usio salama kiasi cha kudandia magari binafsi hasa noah , sikukuu zimepita ... watoto wataenda shule ? : mwezi wa desemba wa kila mwaka hubeba siku maalumu katika historia ya imani za kidini na kijamii , kwa kusherehekea krismas , spika makinda : miaka minne ya uongozi ameibuka shujaa : kikao cha kufunga mwaka 2013 cha bunge la jamhuri ya muungano kimemaliza muda wake mjini dodoma .
huko ni kuboresha au kupofusha elimu ? : yero !
nini hiki ?
eti elimu kuboreshwa kwa kuwaongezea watahiniwa maksi , ili wote wafaulu ?
naapa haya ni majibu rahisi kwa zifanywe juhudi za makusudi wazawa wawe wawekezaji wakubwa : kama zilivyofanyika jitihada za makusudi kutoa fursa kwa makundi yaliyobaki nyuma mfano wanawake kushirikishwa kutoa maamuzi , sekta ya gesi izingatie sheria za mazingira : utafiti wa gesi na mafuta nchini tanzania bado unaendelea kwa kasi hapa tanzania .
hadi sasa hakuna taarifa rasmi kwamba vita ya umasikini bila kuwajua walengwa ! : sufian juma amejitokeza kutoa ushuhuda juu ya namna alivyonufaika kupitia mpango wa mfuko wa maendeleo ya jamii ( tasaf ) wa jamii idhamirie kufikia malengo ya 3 zero 2015 : kwa miaka mingi tangu ugonjwa wa ukimwi ugundulike nchini , watu wengi , taasisi za umma , mashirika ya hirari , ya ndani na pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo luninga na redio 2.what if the russkies target the saudis for those terror attacks ?
in louisiana , governor bobby jindal says his goal is to “ eliminate all personal income tax and all corporate income tax in a revenue neutral manner . ”
“ when i started as governor , we had the highest state income tax in the region , now we have the second lowest , and i want us to take it to zero , ” he said in his state of the state address .
“ look out texas , here comes kansas . ”
few governors are in as enviable a position as nebraska ’ s dave heineman .
the republican has one of the highest approval rates of any governor in the country , and his state has one of the lowest unemployment rates .
when every other commercial or advertisement you see around this time of year is about getting the aforementioned “ special someone ” the “ perfect gift , ” it tends to get to you a little bit .
the gift itself is not what is at the root of the problem but who gave it and how .
remember that commercial where the couple is skating on a pond and he leaves a diamond necklace on a tree branch for her to find ?
or the one circulating this season is where a guy travels by foot and subway with a multitude of balloons to stand outside his girlfriend ’ s window in john cusack say anything-fashion in an attempt of a romantic proposal .
i have almost cried watching two-minute jewelry commercials and if i end up crying at a short youtube ad , you had better believe that i am a wreck for feature-length romantic christmas movies .
one in particular that pulls at the heartstrings every time is love , actually .
seeing all the relationships work out in the end or become resolved makes you wonder- if all these people can get it together , why can ’ t i ?
i ’ m well aware that this is fictitious and a hollywood representation , but when even the twelve-year old boy professes his love to his dream girl on christmas eve , cute factor aside , i feel like i may as well quit trying .
and new year ’ s eve .
i absolutely love new year ’ s eve , the possibility of something new or a fresh start is always exciting , but one part is extremely daunting .
the new years kiss .
i wish i could say that it doesn ’ t mean anything , but it does .
when the clock quickly approaches midnight and there is no one around , that feeling of loneliness seeps its way into your psyche .
healthy relationships are wonderful any time of the year , but around new years eve , it is comforting to know who that person will be at midnight and hopefully it will be someone you want by your side for 2014 .
because if what “ they ” say is true , how you spend new years eve is how you spend the rest of the year , and no wants to spend 12 months feeling lonely .
so to all those who are shaking their heads , this is just an interpretation of singledom during the holiday season .
not everyone who is single and in their twenties will feel this way , this is just one girl ’ s take on it .
so bring on the mistletoe-adorned doorways and fireworks to ring in the new year , but in the mean time , i ’ ll be spending my days with a box of kleenex and a queue of jewelry commercials .
chiar de pe prima sută de metri a anului 2014 , federația rusă va afla dacă va obține câștigul scontat din găzduirea la sochi ( în perioada 7 – 23 februarie ) a jocurilor olimpice de iarnă , eveniment la care sunt așteptați peste 2500 de atleți din 65 de țări . o miză importantă pentru care kremlinul și în special președintele rus vladimir putin și-au pus în joc prestigiul politic ...
colaborarea rusia – nato – lumini și umbre ale unui business-mariaj colaborarea dintre rusia și nato , în cei 22 de ani de existență , se aseamănă mult cu o căsătorie din interes .
un business-mariaj în care cât timp interesele coincid , relația va găsi suficiente resurse interne să depășească orice divergență .
dar și atunci când interesele nu mai coincid , șansele unui compromis tind repede spre zero .
iar criza este mult mai profundă și necesită ...
o operaţiune internaţională împotriva siriei este iminentă .
toate declaraţiile politice , toate mişcările de trupe , nave de război , avioane , toate evenimentele din ultimele două săptămâni indică acelaşi lucru .
avertismentele rusiei şi iranului de duminică demonstrează că în orientul mijlociu se joacă o partidă uriaşă de poker geopolitic .
doar un miracol poate amâna confruntarea .
polonia – un model de eficienţă şi pragmatism în diplomaţia europeană nu trebuie să fii un foarte subtil analist de politică externă pentru a observa că statutul şi vizibilitatea poloniei pe scena politică europeană s-au modificat substanţial în ultimii ani , după venirea la putere , în anul 2007 , a tandemului liberal tusk-sikorski .
în mod cert , fenomenul se datorează deopotrivă consensului politic intern , dar şi unor eforturi diplomatice susţinute .
răspunsul domnului jose manel barroso la scrisoarea preşedintelui emil constantinescu vă mulţumim pentru scrisoarea dumneavoastră pe care am primit-o în data de 27 iulie 2012 , în care prezentaţi opinia dumneavoastră cu privire la reacţia comisiei europene la evoluţia situaţiei politice şi instituţionale din această vară în românia .
permiteţi-mi să clarific faptul că acţiunile comisiei ca răspuns la aceste evoluţii sunt ...
summit-ul nato – un prohod şi o renaştere mereu amânate reuniunea anuală a membrilor alianţei nord-atlantice este programată a avea loc în perioada 20-21 mai 2012 , ţara-gazdă fiind de această dată statele unite ale americii .
o reuniune aniversară am putea spune , summit-ul nato ajungând în acest an la ediţia cu numărul 25 ( un număr oficial primesc doar întâlnirile considerate tradiţionale , nu şi cele excepţionale ) .
problemele economice profunde şi de solvabilitate în grecia , spania , portugalia şi irlanda constituie un risc grav pentru sistemul bancar european .
datoriile suverane ale acestor ţări sunt de aproximativ 2 trilioane de euro şi cea mai mare parte a acestor datorii sunt deţinute de bănci europene .
cristofobia & # 8211 ; toleranţa este pentru toată lumea , mai puţin pentru intoleranţi islamofobia păleşte în comparaţie cu cristofobia prezentă în majoritatea societăţilor musulmane .
auzim des musulmani plângându-se că sunt victime ale abuzului în occident , dar se vorbeşte puţin despre felul în care sunt tratate minorităţile religioase în lumea islamică , despre modul în care creştinii sunt ucişi din cauza religiei lor .
este un genocid în creştere care ar trebui ...
după luni de negocieri cu fostul secretar general al onu , kofi annan , şi deliberări extinse în consiliul de securitate al onu ostilităţile din siria continuă .
deşi violenţa generală a scăzut uşor , iar consiliul de observatori onu a crescut la 300 , regimul dictatorial al lui bashar al-assad ignoră cererea de „ încetare a focului ” .
afganistanul a fost tema principală a summit-ului nato de la chicago .
nu întâmplător !
după mai bine de zece ani de război , pierderi umane şi costuri materiale importante , alianţa nord-atlantică încearcă să pună punct unui conflict extrem de nepopular acasă .
fie că e vorba de ţări europene , din zona pacificului sau chiar de statele unite .
dar retragerea trupelor şi a materialului de ...
talks between orca exploration and the tanzanian government to double the amount of gas produced on songo songo are dragging on . ( ... )
a man was injured in a one-car collision on the a413 between akeley and lillingstone dayrell at 6.20am on saturday december 28 . , natural family planning outreachworld organization of the billings ovulation methodbillings ovulation method association - usafamily of the americas pcs.production.1.20131122.1458 ( pewsuwvmwapp01 ) will de blasio 's big gamble pay off ? | norm stamper dr mgimwa died at the mediclinic kloof in pretoria on wednesday morning at the age of 64 .
he was admitted to the south african hospital for emergency treatment .
mr lukuvi , who is also the minister of state in the prime minister 's office ( policy , coordination and parliamentary affairs ) , told a press conference in dar es salaam on thursday that the deceased 's body will first be taken to his home at mikocheni b in kinondoni municipality .
a banker and an academician , the late dr mgimwa was also a member of parliament ( mp ) for kalenga constituency in iringa region on ccm ticket .
he spent almost a month in the hospital in question for blood pressure treatment. fully functional new air condition unit .
the outside ribbing is made of can be moved in an instance by helicopter or truck & they can have any additions one wants. and strong we can incorporate any fittings and fixtures you want best go via taxi or you can take a bus from mor chit bts to chaengwattana road .
it 's easy and cheap although the number 52.bus 52 from victory or the bus 166 over the expressway , as soon as it leaves the expressway get off and get a motorcyle taxi .
the office is near the mfa and before the prachacheun turning , coming from vibhavadi rangsit .
the ministry of foreign affairs is nearby florida ’ seminole caucus ’ convenes at bcs title tilt mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 10 am est first-timers lace up on final day of tampa ’ s ice rink sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est 2-year-old nearly drowns in pasco county sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est upcoming job fairs in the tampa area sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est tbbj readers : i-4 connector doesnt affect me fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 10 pm est start the new year with ripe , juicy strawberries wed jan 1 , 2014 6 : 10 pm est new open air market opens on gandy boulevard tue dec 31 , 2013 12 : 10 pm est the human vending machine sun jan 5 , 2014 11 : 19 pm est local crime roundup mon jan 6 , 2014 05 : 19 am est seacoast endures frigid temperatures after winter storm fri jan 3 , 2014 9 : 19 pm est hannaford supermarkets to host job fairs for new exeter store fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 19 pm est epping children ’ s librarian reinstated fri jan 3 , 2014 03 : 19 am est property at site of crime scene ok ’ d for demolition fri jan 3 , 2014 03 : 19 am est arctic visitors spotted in the seacoast fri jan 3 , 2014 03 : 19 am est selectman withdraws bid to leave planning group mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 19 am est nashua apartment fire displaces residents mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 19 am est ski fest offers winter fun for kids mon jan 6 , 2014 01 : 19 am est body found in weare sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 19 pm est firefighters ask for help in light of winter weather sun jan 5 , 2014 9 : 19 pm est around the city of portsmouth mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 19 am est liberty mutual switches to leds at its local facility mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 19 am est portsmouth inaugurates new leaders tonight mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 19 am est pam smart ’ s pen pal plans film mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 19 am est the founder and coordinator of kiwoce graceanna ernest lyimo explained that , her institution was at first founded in 2006 with a group of women has provided life skills , formal and informal education as well enterprenuirship skills to the marginalized women and youth with the aim of mitigating poverty and illiterate among the members of the community .
while this may be a bit cliché , music will always be one of the most important artworks in my life .
i cannot imagine going through a semester without it .
almost everything i know would just feel so empty .
how would i pump myself up at the gym if i didn ’ t have an awesome collection of songs to get me going ?
would i even go to my classes if the long walk to school wasn ’ t made better by shuffling through my ipod ?
i can ’ t even try and imagine a semester without music that would me through it .
and for me , it is most beneficial to listen to music while i ’ m studying .
more tatar-bashkir newslatest from azatliq.org чаллыда русия мөселманнарын яклау комитеты булдырмакчылар чиркәүләр яндыруны үзе өстенә алган мартьянов янына адвокатлар кертелми пензада татарларның яшәеше белән таныштырган этнотыюлык булдырылачак кытайда мәчеттә чыккан этеш-төртештә 14 кеше һәлак булган ксенофобия нигезендә иң күп һөҗүмнәр мәскәү һәм петербурда булган radio azatliq ( in tatar and bashkir ) features & commentary unemployment set to get worse in usa and as the fed keeps on prionting money to save institutions the banks keep on doing the same thing .
gm has announced it will get rid of 2 ( out of 7 jets ) of its corporate jets after arriving in washington to ask for bail out monies yet have no concern to trim costs nor had a plan of how they will trim costs .
gm pays more money in corporate sponsorship than ford or chysler who also asked for a handout but they too had no game plan to trim costs as well as execs salaries ..
[ usa states budget deficit 2010 & 2011 ] [ unemployment usa & thailand 2009 ] [ crises blame -guess who ? ]
[ trump casinos in chap 11 bankrupcy ] [ read george soros crises report ] [ madoff ponzi fraud crises ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ banks bailout : blame who ] [ blame cr act or who ? ]
[ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ usa bailout will not work ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] case on illegal possession of tusks facing chinese nationals adjourned na karama kenyunko the case was adjourned by resident magistrate emmilius mchauru on behalf of principal resident magistrate isaya arufani who was not present as he had other official duties to attend .
it was alleged that the accused committed the offence on november 2 , this year at kifaru street , mikocheni b in kinondoni district .
politifact : ’ obamacare ’ law requests private data of some texans to gauge eligibility for subsidized coverage sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est tax fairness in eye of the beholder sat dec 28 , 2013 8 : 27 pm est georgetown to consider citywide spraying for mosquitos tue sep 25 , 2012 4 : 27 pm edt premier : u.s. may not act sat sep 15 , 2012 12 : 27 am edt new brushy creek pedestrian bridge now open mon sep 10 , 2012 6 : 27 pm edt travis county to vote on new condo development sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est meet the new ut coach : strong excited about longhorns ’ football ’ passion ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 27 pm est strong offered job as longhorns ’ coach , reports say sat jan 4 , 2014 12 : 27 pm est kinky friedman running for ag commissioner sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 27 pm est apd investigate first homicide of the year sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est preparing for the freeze mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 27 am est buzz surrounds news of new ut coach sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 27 pm est family of man shot by apd wants answers sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est one bar in the former yugoslavia has the distinct honor of straddling a disputed border .
enjoy a beer in two different countries … just don ’ t let the guards catch you crossing the line . ( 1 / 6 / 2014 5 : 45 : 00 am ) depuis le deuxième assassinat politique en moins de 6 mois , les laïcs manifestent contre ennahda et demande la dissolution de l 'assemblée constituante .
un islamiste présumé a été tué , cinq autres arrêtées au cours d 'une opération de police dimanche matin dans une maison dans la banlieue de tunis .
les opérations de démantèlement de groupes terroristes se multiplient depuis le second assassinat politique dans le pays et la mort de soldats à la frontière les habitants de ouardia , banlieue au sud de la capitale ont été réveillés par des tirs à 5h30 par une opération commando visant une maison qui abritait cinq suspects ont été arrêtés , un homme a été tué et un autre blessé au cours moins d 'une semaine après une ambuscade au mont chaambi où 8 soldats tunisiens ont été retrouvés fusillés et égorgés , les autorités tunisiennes ont depuis promis une plus grande fermeté dans la lutte anti-terroriste .
a chaambi , frontière tuniso-algérienne , l 'armée a eu recours à des dix jihadistes auraient été tués , chiffres non encore confirmés par le on a appris dans la soirée dimanche qu 'un soldat tunisien a été tué , sept autres blessés par l 'explosion d 'une mine près de la frontière algérienne , où ces derniers jours , le pays a été secoué par plusieurs alertes terroristes : - un colis suspect et une menace de mort ont été retrouvés devant la maison samedi à l 'appel d 'ennahda , majoritaire au sein de la coaltion gouvernementa le , plusieurs dizaines de milliers de personnes ont manifesté à tunis . - un homme a tiré sur une patrouille de police dans l 'est du pays .
dans les centres commerciaux , lieux publics et ambassades , la vigilance est accrue et l 'insécurité dans le pays ne cesse d 'accroitre les passions chez les si l 'identité des hommes tués au mont chaambi n 'a pas encore été révélée , le premier ministre , ali laarayedh a révélé placer la lutte anti-terroriste au-dessus " rendez les armes , rendez vous à la police et la société et la justice le prendra en considération " , a déclaré le premier ministre ali larayedh , cité par ce crime attribué à la mouvance jihadiste , et dont l 'exécutant et le commanditaire n 'ont pas été arrêtés , avait entraîné la chute du premier depuis l 'assassinat de l 'opposant politique mohamed brahmi le 25 juillet dernier , la tunisie est de nouveau ébranlée sur le plan sécuritaire , politique cela fait maintenant 10 jours que des manifestations géantes se tiennent quotidiennement devant le parlement pour demander la dissolution du gouvernement .
dimanche soir une manifestation de femmes étaient prévues à tunis .
elles devaient s 'habiller en blanc et rouge en signe de condamnation du dozens of flights delayed , canceled at logan airportcbs locallogan bounces back after snowstorm delaysboston globesee all 657 sourcesrelated airports boston globesee realtime coveragevalue of good qb play shines as nfl playoffs openboston globe5 hours agowritten bybenjamin volincincinnati - we can sit here and break down the matchups in the trenches , or how the cornerbacks measure up to the wide receivers , or whether team x has enough grit and experience to advance through the playoffs.patriots will host colts in divisional roundboston heraldcolts have little time to savor stunning comebackboston.comsee all 2,193 sourcesrelated : indianapolis colts can you tell us a few things about the history of the romanians who live in timoc valley ?
what was the soviet influence on this part of the balkans , and how did it affect the romanians in timoc ?
was there any collaboration between yugoslavia ’ s and romania ’ s secret services ?
« previousvalea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu next un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday jan 6 , 2014 according to him , stamps have a great contribution to the development of tourism .
he said it is the government ’ s wish to make zanzibar one of the best tourism centres on the coast of the indian ocean .
become a member of the legacy circle by taking one of the following steps : notify us of your intention to make a bequest to prairie public if you do provide for prairie public broadcasting in your will or other estate plans , please let us know .
by doing so , you do not obligate yourself in any way , but allow us to plan for the future and to honor your intentions .
" downton abbey " airs sundays on pbs at 9 p.m. et. stood at kd 0.312 and the japanese yen fell to kd 0.002 . ( end ) part of wedgewood commons sold for $ 33.9m fri jan 3 , 2014 3 : 26 pm est autozone credit rating given boost by moody ’ s fri jan 3 , 2014 1 : 26 pm est download the weather app with action news 5 meteorologist ron childers sat jan 4 , 2014 9 : 26 pm est suspect arrested in san antonio park slaying sat jan 4 , 2014 7 : 07 pm est jc penney pulling out of gautier as of march 21 sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 17 pm est winter weather impacting flights into , out of tenn sun jan 5 , 2014 3 : 26 pm est tenn city on verge of lawsuit settlement sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 26 pm est ky racetrack could reopen by spring sun jan 5 , 2014 1 : 26 pm est deal or no deal ?
talks on future of autozone park continue sat jan 4 , 2014 01 : 26 am est report : irs refunded $ 4b to identity thieves thu nov 7 , 2013 7 : 26 pm est man charged in fatal stabbing in haywood county wed nov 6 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est ga .
girl found in trash bin had tried to run away wed nov 6 , 2013 5 : 26 pm est afghanistanalbaniaalgeriaamerican samoaandorraangolaanguillaantarcticaantigua and barbudaargentinaarmeniaarubaaustraliaaustriaazerbaijanåland islandsbahamasbahrainbangladeshbarbadosbelarusbelgiumbelizebeninbermudabhutanbolivia , plurinational state ofbosnia and herzegovinabotswanabouvet islandbrazilbritish indian ocean territorybrunei darussalambulgariaburkina fasoburundicambodiacamerooncanadacape verdecayman islandscôte d 'ivoirecentral african republicchadchilechinachristmas islandcocos ( keeling ) islandscolombiacomoroscongocongo , the democratic republic of thecook islandscosta ricacroatiacubacyprusczech republicdenmarkdjiboutidominicadominican republicecuadoregyptel salvadorequatorial guineaeritreaestoniaethiopiafalkland islands ( malvinas ) faroe islandsfijifinlandfrancefrench guianafrench polynesiafrench southern territoriesgabongambiageorgiagermanyghanagibraltargreecegreenlandgrenadaguadeloupeguamguatemalaguernseyguineaguinea-bissauguyanahaitiheard island and mcdonald islandsholy see ( vatican city state ) hondurashong konghungaryicelandindiaindonesiairan , islamic republic ofiraqirelandisle of manisraelitalyjamaicajapanjerseyjordankazakhstankenyakiribatikorea , democratic people 's republic ofkorea , republic ofkuwaitkyrgyzstanlao people 's democratic republiclatvialebanonlesotholiberialibyan arab jamahiriyaliechtensteinlithuanialuxembourgmacaomacedonia , the former yugoslav republic ofmadagascarmalawimalaysiamaldivesmalimaltamarshall islandsmartiniquemauritaniamauritiusmayottemexicomicronesia , federated states ofmoldova , republic ofmonacomongoliamontenegromontserratmoroccomozambiquemyanmarnamibianaurunepalnetherlandsnetherlands antillesnew caledonianew zealandnicaraguanigernigerianiuenorfolk islandnorthern mariana islandsnorwayomanpakistanpalaupalestinian territory , occupiedpanamapapua new guineaparaguayperuphilippinespitcairnpolandportugalpuerto ricoqatarréunionromaniarussian federationrwandasaint barthélemysaint helena , ascension and tristan da cunhasaint kitts and nevissaint luciasaint martinsaint pierre and miquelonsaint vincent and the grenadinessamoasan marinosao tome and principesaudi arabiasenegalserbiaseychellessierra leonesingaporeslovakiasloveniasolomon islandssomaliasouth africasouth georgia and the south sandwich islandsspainsri lankasudansurinamesvalbard and jan mayenswazilandswedenswitzerlandsyrian arab republictaiwan , province of chinatajikistantanzania , united republic ofthailandtimor-lestetogotokelautongatrinidad and tobagotunisiaturkeyturkmenistanturks and caicos islandstuvaluugandaukraineunited arab emiratesunited kingdomunited statesunited states minor outlying islandsuruguayuzbekistanvanuatuvenezuela , bolivarian republic ofviet namvirgin islands , britishvirgin islands , u.s.wallis and futunawestern saharayemenzambiazimbabweget google stuff продинфо - новости : закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси главная » новости беларуси » закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси ...
закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % 11 августа 2010закупочные цены на молоко в республике беларусь повысятся в среднем на 10 % .
такое решение содержится в постановлении совета министров республики беларусь от 9 августа 2010 г . № 1177 .
на основании документа внесены соответствующие изменения в постановление совета министров республики беларусь от 5 июня 2008 г . № 812 " о закупочных ценах на продукцию животноводства , реализуемую для республиканских государственных нужд " , сообщает pravo.by со ссылкой на белта .
закупочная цена на молоко сорта " экстра " возрастет c br1000 до br1100 за 1 кг , молоко высшего сорта - с br865 до br950 , на молоко первого сорта - с br795 до br875 .
как сообщили в министерстве сельского хозяйства и продовольствия республики беларусь , принятие постановления позволит повысить рентабельность производства молока до 15 % , получить сельскохозяйственным организациям в августе-декабре 2010 года около br200 млрд. дополнительной выручки и направить ее на закупку минеральных удобрений , горючесмазочных материалов , а также повышение заработной осуществляться поэтапным повышением отпускных цен в рамках прогнозных параметров инфляции , что наряду с экспортной выручкой обеспечит прибыльную работу молочной отрасли на уровне 2-3 % " , - подчеркнули в в июне нынешнего года оставались стабильными , а с середины июля стали расти цены на молочную продукцию , поставляемую на экспорт .
только за последнюю неделю июля экспортные цены на основные позиции молочной продукции увеличились в среднем на $ 200 за тонну .
в результате цены внешнего рынка , несмотря на повышение закупочных цен на молоко в марте и июне 2010 года по 10 % , позволяют перерабатывающим организациям по ряду позиций получать значительную прибыль .
так , рентабельность сыров и сухого цельного молока превысила 20 % , казеина - 35 % , сухого обезжиренного молока составляет около 70 % .
отпускные цены на социально значимую цельномолочную продукцию , реализуемую в республике , с повышением их в апреле и мае 2010 года по 2 % и в июле - на 3 % , вместе с тем с повышением цен на материальные ресурсы , используемые для производства по оперативным данным , за январь-июнь 2010 года молокоперерабатывающей отраслью получено br383,8 млрд. прибыли от реализации и br246 млрд. чистой прибыли .
уровень рентабельности реализованной молочной отсутствие сезонного снижения цен внешнего рынка на молочную продукцию и был внесен на утверждение проект постановления совета министров республики беларусь об увеличении закупочных цен на молоко на 10 % " , - faa renews spaceports license fri jan 3 , 2014 09 : 20 am est nnsa says it needs new mexico ’ s labs fri jan 3 , 2014 09 : 20 am est miss. executes former butcher who dismembered man thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt ap news alert thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt bond now $ 1m for female suspect in stripper case thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt payless shoesource gives 200 kids new shoes sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 17 pm est j.c. penney in gautier announces closing sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 17 pm est dmi all-stars to perform at crystal ball sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 17 am est comfort inn fire sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 17 am est a healthy life can be achieved in the new year sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 17 am est a passion for the written word sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 17 am est classes set to resume for public schools sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 17 am est delta symphony gearing up for years slate fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 17 pm est jc penney pulling out of gautier as of march 21 sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 17 pm est ’ dangerous cold ’ settles in mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 17 am est rainforest carwash reopens mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 17 am est the good old days mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 17 am est ban on conjugal visits resisted mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 17 am est mccomb schools receive preschool grant sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 17 am est atv thefts on rise , area lawmen say fri jan 3 , 2014 4 : 17 pm est miss. ban on conjugal visits resisted mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 17 am est gulfport bar damaged by weekend fire mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 17 am est photo feature : first-time mardi gras mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 17 am est add your comment sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 17 am est photo : elk crossing sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 07 pm est new year ’ s baby : ’ winter ’ takes all thu jan 2 , 2014 08 : 07 am est pot advocates likely to aim for 2016 ballot sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 07 pm est trial to resume for man accused in temple killings sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 07 pm est busy year on tap for arizona politics sun jan 5 , 2014 08 : 07 am est neighbors called 911 on man accused of killing son sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 07 am est lawmaker plans cps funding measure sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est seagal mulls run for az governor fri jan 3 , 2014 10 : 07 pm est seagal , arpaio join forces for tv show fri jan 3 , 2014 12 : 07 am est 18 minutes ago mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 07 am est bruce springsteen pacts with cbs to promote new album mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 07 am est ’ frozen ’ freezes out ’ paranormal activity ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 07 pm est irvington rd west of 6th ave closed sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 07 pm est steven seagal says he may run for az governor sun jan 5 , 2014 2 : 07 pm est pointing lasers at aircraft may become felony mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 07 am est ex-chief won ’ t be charged in fatal shooting thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est sex offender has new address in area thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est bp agents find 155 pounds of pot thu dec 5 , 2013 04 : 07 am est epublished by pressmart [ digital magazine publishing ] korea , south news headlines © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedfanshawe student union > interrobang > policies editorial opinions or comments expressed in this newspaper reflect the views of the writer and are not those of the interrobang or the fanshawe student archives2013 / 142012 / 132011 / 122010 / 112009 / 102008 / 092007 / 082006 / 072005 / 06online exclusivesdrilling for value at national oilwell varco - barrons.com 256 schools up for rehabilitation fail to meet deadline - dr kawambwa na waryoba yankami the project which was due to end in june last year focused on improving two schools in every district in the country .
according to the minister , contractors who were to undertake the project in the 256 schools have not met the deadline .
new year honours in towcester , brackley and bicester - buckingham advertiser 5 / .
giving money to beggers you may regret it if you open your wallet and they see whats inside .
again a king thai lady made this listake on the rangit overhead walkway one day and she lost her life .
11 / .
even good talking foreigners can scam .
watch the backpacker sometimes on the overbridge to panthip plaza whose down and out and lost his passport wanting money or just got ripped off by the girlfriend and wants to borrow some baht off you ? 14 / .
if you find your ccs are used do not use again but report stolen ? you may get a bill but if you haven 't used it then the company may waiver it .
15 / .
never buy property unless you see it eg. condos finished ? ? some foreigners ply on unsuspecting foreigners .
as at 2012 the touts are not around the doors anymore at the airport and its a lot harder to be approached by touts but all the same watch ones who loiter around escalators or the main doors offering you cheap taxi rides etc .
always use the meter taxi outside the bottom ground floor with a chit or bell bus service to pattaya or the train to bangkok . ]
[ airport scams & thefts ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] if you find our content useful you can help us out by recommending the site to your friends and / or by liking our page on facebook .
home | about | search | site map | blog | jobs diriba kuma , the mayor of addis ababa , is closely shadowed by his deputy abate sitotaw . ( ... )
the widow of the late prime minister meles zenawi feels increasingly sidelined in ethiopia ’ s ruling coalition and is mulling a move to the united states . ( ... )
analytics cookies.we and our service providers may use analytics cookies , which are sometimes called performance cookies , to collect information about your use of the site and enable us to improve the way it works . analytics cookies collect information about how you use the site , for instance , which pages you go to most .
the information allows us to see the overall patterns of usage on the site , help us record any difficulties you have with the site and show us whether our advertising is effective or not .
3 .
how do third parties use cookies on the site ?
please note that by disabling or blocking any or all cookies , some features of the site may not operate as intended , or you may not have access to features or personalization available through the site .
analytics cookies can also be managed via the following links usd six billion during the conference , to be attended by representatives of he said that the deceased was a tourist who was staying at the hotel and at around 13 : 00 hours on tuesday he went to the swimming pool .
he said the body of the deceased is preserved at muhimbili national hospital for further investigations .
according to the rpc investigations into the circumstances that lead to the death of the student is in progress .
the body of sheki is preserved at the mwananyamala hospital .
he said that manyama is alleged to have shot shoni after a misunderstanding between the two at madale at around 22.45 hours on tuesday .
he said shoni has been admitted at the muhimbili national hospital ( mnh ) for treatment .
arusha rpc liberatus sabas , and mwanza rpc valentino mlowela told the guardian that the situation in their regions was normal .
masaki said the child was killed by a car as he rode on a bicycle on a road in mbalizi district. vivre dans un pays ou règne la justice et la démocratie réelles. tiennent les promesses qu ’ ils vous ont faites pour recevoir vos la constitution , des lois du pays , et des droits humains s ’ ils ne le font pas , ne vous en faites pas .
where is amp going ?
mon jan 6 , 2014 03 : 26 am est born in prison , student now excels at vanderbilt wed dec 25 , 2013 03 : 26 am est tennessee to get $ 9.2m for low-achieving schools tue dec 24 , 2013 09 : 26 am est titans fans not surprised by munchak release sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 26 am est phil everly , one half of the everly brothers , dies sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 26 am est titans gm looking for ’ right ’ fit in next coach sun jan 5 , 2014 5 : 26 pm est kopecky scores in so , lifts panthers to win sun jan 5 , 2014 01 : 26 am est bma responds to filing in ’ renoir girl ’ case fri jan 3 , 2014 8 : 15 pm est flu cases on the rise in maryland sat jan 4 , 2014 6 : 15 pm est texpool , which is an investment account , was also discussed and an option for edc to dip into if needed .
agenția pentru cercetare avansată în domeniul apărării ( darpa ) a încheiat recent un acord cu departamentul apărării din australia în privinţa instalării pe teritoriul australian a unui telescop radar destinat supravegherii spaţiale , se precizează într-un comunicat al agenţiei americane .
space surveillance telescope ( sst ) va fi dotat cu un sistem de trei lentile mersenne-schmidt ( care ...
google , apple şi microsoft se luptă pentru supremaţie .
în vreme ce android a cucerit o puternică bază mobilă , microsoft şi apple , sisteme „ închise ” , mizează pe universul produselor conexe şi a variantelor desktop .
luna martie a fost foarte încărcată în lumea internetului aducându-ne lansările celor mai performante browsere oferite de giganţii din industrie : microsoft , google şi mozilla .
microsoft a cheltuit milioane de dolari sprijinind diverși politicieni in anii precedenți și se pare că intenționeză să recupereze măcar o parte din acești bani înapoi prin vânzarea unui nou pachet de servicii si unelte software destinate campaniilor politice și grupurilor de activiști .
această nouă ofertă poartă denumirea ” campaingready ” si are la bază o platformă interactivă ...
wolfram alpha ( www.wolframalpha.com ) este un nou tip de motor de căutare , cu care stephen wolfram , un fizician britanic , îşi propune să dea răspunsuri exacte , la obiect , asemenea celor date de un om şi speră să atragă atenţia gigantului google .
microsoft lansează noul său motor de căutare bing.com , ce va fi disponibil tuturor începând cu 3 iunie .
şi în românia , mediapro testează ...
protestele de la chişinău au făcut înconjurul lumii .
cnn a prezentat pe pagina electronică un sumar al evenimentelor de marţi , 7 aprilie 2009 , din republica moldova .
jurnaliştii cnn au remarcat importanţa pe care internetul şi reţelele de socializare au avut-o în organizarea protestelor .
evenimentele din chişinău au fost puse la cale pe twitter sau facebook , lucru observat şi de „ new ...
lansarea windows 7 beta , anunţată cu surle şi trâmbiţe la târgul ces din las vegas , a fost amânată cu 24 de ore , din cauză că serverele au cedat , iar compania a încercat să le suplimenteze cât de repede a putut . compania a fost aspru criticată chiar şi pe blogul oficial al windows de utilizatorii dezamăgiţi că nu au putut testa noul sistem la termenul anunţat .
abilitatea microsoft de a combate pirateria online i-a înfuriat pe utilizatorii de internet chinezi .
noua versiune a programului anti-piratare windows genuine advantage face ca background-ul de pe monitor să se înnegrească la fiecare oră dacă software-ul instalat nu trece un test de validare .
utilizatorii chinezi de internet susţin că microsoft ar trebui să îi urmărească pe producătorii ...
idc : serviciile locale it au crescut cu 48,7 % în 2007 piaţa românească a serviciilor it a avut în 2007 o valoare de 363,14 milioane de dolari , în creştere cu 48,7 % faţă de anul anterior , potrivit unui studiu al companiei de analiză idc , citat în raportul lunar asupra pieţei tehnologiei informaţiei publicat de newsin .
“ piaţa românească a serviciilor it a crescut în 2007 cu 48,7 % , calculată în dolari americani , până la aproape 363,14 ... iphone 3g a fost lansat şi în românia pe 22 august şi au fost înregistrate 6000 de precomenzi , iar 100 de telefoane au fost cumpărate la momentul lansării în bucureşti , potrivit informaţiilor oferite de reprezentanţii orange românia .
în aceeaşi zi , vodafone romania punea la dispoziţia clienţilor săi o ofertă unică ce include noul model htc touch diamond la preţuri speciale şi ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressstandard chart markets data center - barrons.com the row over oil drilling off the coast of the falkland islands has taken another twist , with the uk ambassador to argentina accusing its government of trying to " intimidate " the islands ' residents . ( 12 / 18 / 2013 11 : 50 : 59 am ) mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola ameibeza rasimu ya pili ya katiba mpya , akisema si katiba ya watanzania kwani idadi ya waliotoa maoni haifiki robo ya watanzania .
akizungumza na nipashe kuhusu rasimu hiyo iliyokabidhiwa wiki hii kwa marais jakaya kikwete na dk .
ali mohammed shein , lugola alisema tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba licha ya kutengewa fedha na vitendea kazi ili izunguke nchi nzima imezifikia sehemu chache na haina mawazo kutoka kwa watanzania wa ngazi na viwango vyote .
habari kamili mwenyekiti wa jukwaa la katiba , deus kibamba , ametahadharisha kuwa hawatakubaliana na mpango unaosukwa wa kutaka bunge maalum lisionyeshwe moja kwa moja .
kauli hiyo aliitoa jana mjini hapa katika mkutano wa kuchagua wawakilishi wa asasi zisizo za kiserikali ili majina yao yapelekwe kwa rais kwa ajili ya kuyateua kushiriki kwenye bunge maalum la katiba linalotarajia kufanyika februari mwakani .
rais jakaya kikwete amesema hatua inayofuata baada ya kukamilika kwa rasimu ya katiba ni maamuzi ya wananchi na bunge la katiba ambayo yataifanya ipitishwe na kuwa katiba kamili .
kadhalika , rais kikwete alisema katika maamuzi hayo , viongozi wa kijamii na siasa wana nafasi kubwa ya kuhakikisha mchakato wa katiba mpya unafanikiwa kwa kukwepa maslahi ya vyama vyao na makundi wanayotokea na kinyume chake katiba ya sasa itaendele kutumika .
majina ya makundi mbalimbali yaliyoomba kuteuliwa na rais kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalum la katiba , yameanza kumiminika katika ofisi za ikulu .
akizungumza jana na nipashe jumapili , katibu mkuu kiongozi , balozi ombeni sefue , alisema kuwa baadhi ya majina hayo yalianza kupokelewa kabla ya tangazo la serikali namba 443 lililochapishwa kwenye gazeti lake desemba 13 , mwaka huu .
ijumaa iliyopita , ofisi ya rais ilitoa taarifa ikizitaka asasi kuwasilisha majina ya wajumbe ambao zitawateua kuingia katika bunge maalum la katiba ambalo litakutaja mapema mwakani kwa ajili ya kupitisha katiba mpya .
jukwaa la katiba tanzania ( jukata ) limesema litaongoza mkutano wa kuchagua majina ya watu 20 kutoka katika taasisi zisizo za kiserikali katika makundi yaliyoainishwa kisheria , yatakayopelekwa kwa rais ili ateue kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba .
taarifa ya kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira kuhusu tathmini ya matatizo yaliyotokana na operesheni tokomeza , imefichua unyama , mateso , mauaji ya binadamu na mifugo na imesema viongozi wa kisiasa na serikali waliingilia utekelezaji wake .
mzimu wa milipuko ya mabomu yaliyotokea kwa nyakati tofauti kanisa katoliki la mtakatifu joseph mfanyakazi parokia ya olasiti na mkutano wa chadema viwanja vya soweto jijini arusha , umemuibua mkazi wa nzega kutinga bungeni akilalamikia kuteswa na kubambikiwa kesi ya kuhusika na matukio hayo .
hatimaye mbunge wa viti maalum , maryam salum msabaha ( chadema ) , amelazimika kufuta kauli yake bungeni na kuomba radhi kufuatia kauli yake kwamba kila mbunge ana mpenzi wake bungeni humo na mambo mengi yanayotendeka na hawayazungumzi .
kashfa ya baadhi ya wabunge kukatisha safari za kikazi nje ya nchi baada ya kuchukua fedha za safari na posho limewatia aibu na kutikisha bunge jana asubuhi huku bunge likisema suala hilo limefikishwa ngazi ya utawala na kuwataka waliochukua posho hizo kuzirudisha .
kamati ya bunge ya nishati na madini , imesema ongezeko la wizi wa mafuta unaohusisha utoboaji wa mabomba unaweza kusababisha mlipuko wa moto au uvujaji wa mafuta kwenye eneo la bandari jijini dar es salaam .
kamati ya bunge ya uchumi , viwanda na biashara , imeitaka serikali kuwaandaa watanzania na miundombinu itakayowawezesha kumiliki uchumi wa gesi .
akiwasilisha bungeni taarifa ya kamati hiyo kwa kipindi cha machi hadi desemba 15 , mwaka huu , mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , mahmoud mgimwa , alisema maandalizi ya uchumi wa gesi yanatakiwa kuwa makubwa .
kamati ya bunge ya ulinzi na usalama , imependekeza serikali iendeleze operesheni tokomeza ujangili na operesheni kimbunga ambazo zimesitishwa kwa muda .
akisoma kwa niaba ya mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , anna abdallah , mbunge wa namtumbo , vita kawawa ( ccm ) , alisema , operesheni hizo zililenga kutokomeza wahalifu na uhalifu nchini .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amemlipua bungeni naibu waziri wa ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi , goodluck ole medeye kwa kumweleza kuwa sio mzigo tu , bali ni bomu hasa .
mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini , kabwe zitto ( chadema ) , amesema anatarajia kuwasilisha maelezo binafsi kuhusu , kauli ya mwanasheria mkuu , frederick werema , aliyoitoa juzi bungeni dhidi yake ya kumuita muongo kuhusu mabilioni uswis .
waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda , amesema atafurahi na kupumua kuutua wadhifa aliokuwa nao iwapo rais ataamua kufanya hivyo kama ataona hajaridhika na utendaji wake au iwapo wabunge kwa ujumla wao watamweka kitimoto ili kumwondoa .
naibu spika wa bunge , job ndugai amesema mgogoro wakulima na wafugaji katika wilaya ya kiteto mkoani manyara unachangiwa na viongozi wa serikali kutokana na ubaguzi .
ndugai ambaye pia ni mbunge wa kongwa ( ccm ) , alisema viongozi hao wamekuwa wakichochea mgogoro kutokana na kuchukua rushwa ya ng ’ ombe kwenye kila boma la mfugaji kwa ajili ya kuwafukuza wakulima katika maeneo yao wanayolima .
waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , amesema sheria mpya dhidi ya dawa za kulevya ambayo serikali inatarajia kuifikisha bungeni mwakani , itahamasisha watumiaji / wafanyabiashara wadogo wa dawa za kulevya kuwataja wafanyabiashara wakubwa wa dawa hizo .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha dhidi ya vitendo vya kutoa ajira kwa ubaguzi wa kidini na ukabila ambavyo kwa sasa vimeanza kushamiri .
akichangia taarifa ya kamati ya bunge ya katiba , sheria na utawala bungeni jana , alisema sekretariati ya ajira ifuate sifa na siyo udini na ukabila katika uajiri .
mbunge wa mbozi magharibi , david silinde , ( chadema ) , amembana naibu spika job ndugai , kutoa ufafanuzi wa kauli kuwa atafungulia mbwa upande wa pili ili nao wajibu au kutoa lugha ya maudhi kama ambavyo mbunge wa viti maalum , pauline gaekul ( chadema ) alivyofanya wakati akichangia bungeni .
wabunge wameendelea kuwang ’ ang ’ ania kooni waziri mkuu mizengo pinda , waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu , ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia wakiwataka wasisubiri kutimuliwa bali wapumzike nyadhifa zao kistaarabu kwa kushindwa kuwajibika .
mbunge wa ubungo , john mnyika ( chadema ) , amewasilisha hoja binafsi kwa katibu wa bunge , dk .
thomas kashililah , kuhusu kuporomoka kwa viwango vya ufaulu nchini akitaka waziri wa elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , dk .
spika wa bunge la afrika kusini , max sisulu , amesema njia pekee ya kumkumbuka hayati nelson mandela ni kuhakikisha kuwa watu masikini wanapewa matunzo kwa kipaumbele cha kwanza akizungumza katika kikao cha bunge jana , sisulu , alisema wafanyakazi na wabunge wanatakiwa kuenzi mambo mema aliyoyaacha mandela kwa kuwaenzi watu masikini & ldquo ; nadhani shughuli hii ni ya umuhimu kwa sababu bunge na wafanyakazi wa bunge tumkumbuke madiba , kwa macho yetu na machozi yetu tumkumbuke kwa mazuri aliyoyafanya kwa nchi yetu na tupo hapa kwa kusema kuwa hatutayasahau , & rdquo ; alisema sisulu .
mwenyekiti wa kamati ya bunge ya bajeti , andrew chenge , ameonya kuhusu tatizo la kuongezeka kwa kasi kwa matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali haliambayo inaathiri ugharimiaji wa utekelezaji wa miradi ya maendeleo .
bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania , limetoa azimio la kuungana na afrika kusini katika kuomboleza kifo cha mwasisi , mpinga ubaguzi wa rangi na kumkumbuka , marehemu nelson madiba mandela ( 95 ) .
hoja ya tume ya uchaguzi zanzibar ( zec ) kuwataka wapiga kura wawe na vitambulisho vya ukaazi , imewapasua vichwa baadhi ya wabunge huku wale upinzani wakitaka sheria hiyo isitumike kwenye zoezi la kupiga kura ya maoni ya katiba mpya , wakati wabunge wa ccm wengi wao wakitaka itumike .
muswada wa sheria ya kura ya maoni wa mwaka 2013 uliowasilishwa bungeni mjini hapa jana , ulianza kwa mjadala mkali miongoni mwa wabunge .
muswada huo uliwasilishwa bungeni kwa mara pili huyku serikali ikisisitiza kuwa kila mwananchi atakayekuwa amejiandikisha katika daftari la kudumu la wapiga kura la tume ya taifa ya uchaguzi ( nec ) na tume ya uchaguzi zanzibar ( zec ) , ataruhusiwa kupiga kura ya maoni .
viongozi wa nchi za afrika wameshutumiwa kwa kushindwa kutekeleza mikataba mbalimbali wanayoisaini na kuiridhia chini ya umoja wao wa afrika ( au ) .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge wa tanzania waliopo katika bunge la afrika , bernadeta mushashu , alisema kuwa leo wabunge wa bunge la afrika kanda ya mashariki watakutana jijini dar es salaam kwa ajili ya kuweka mkazo na kuhakikisha nchi wanachama zinaridhia na kutekeleza mkataba wa afrika kuhusu demokrasia , uchaguzi na utawala bora .
msajili hana ' ubavu ' wa kufuta usajili wa vyama vilivyoshindwa uchaguzi serikali imesema hakuna sheria inayotoa mamlaka kwa msajili wa vyama vya siasa nchini kuvifutia usajili vyama ambavyo havijashiriki au kushindwa katika uchaguzi mbalimbali wa kisiasa .
jumla ya sh. bilioni 184.5 zimetengwa kwa ajili ya kupeleka maji katika halmashauri ya shinyanga katika mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa maji , dk .
binilith mahenge , aliliambia bunge jana kuwa fedha hizo ni kwa ajili ya kutekeleza miradi ya maji vijijini .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimesema kitatumia fursa ya mkutano wa 14 wa bunge unaoanza kesho , kushinikiza mawaziri waliotuhumiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kushindwa kutimiza wajibu wao wa kuwatumikia watanzania , wawajibishwe na rais jakaya kikwete , kwa kuwa ni ’ mizigo ’ kwa serikali .
mishahara na marupuru ya wabunge kwa nchi masikini kusini mwa jangwa la sahara , tanzania ikiwamo imeelezwa kuwa ni mzigo kwa wananchi wanaowaongoza , utafiti umebaini .
kutokana na hali hiyo , utafiti huo umependekeza kuwa nchi hizo ziunde taasisi huru ya kupanga mishahara na marupurupu ya wabunge , mawaziri , rais na watumishi wengine wa kada ya juu kwenye utumishi wa umma , ili kudhibiti gharama hizo .
mahakama kuu divisheni ya ardhi imeahirisha kusikiliza pingamizi la kesi ya kubomoa nyumba ya mbunge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , mchungaji dk .
getrude rwakatare , dhidi ya baraza la taifa la hifadhi na usimamizi wa mazingira ( nemc ) hadi desemba 10 , mwaka huu .
sakata la tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa bahi , omary badwel ( ccm ) la kutafuna fedha za mfuko wa jimbo limeingia katika sura mpya baada ya kudaiwa kurejesha fedha alizokusanya kwa wananchi katika mradi wa majembe ya kukokotwa na ng ’ ombe huku baadhi ya madiwani wameshangazwa na kitendo hicho .
viongozi waandamizi tisa wa umma wakiwamo wabunge watatu , wameingia matatani baada ya kutakiwa kufika katika baraza la maadili la viongozi wa umma kujibu mashtaka mbalimbali wakituhumiwa kukiuka maadili ya uongozi .
kenya imejitenga na maswaiba wake wa hivi karibuni katika jumuiya ya afrika mashariki , uganda na rwanda kwa kuunga mkono msimamo uliotolewa wiki iliyopita na rais jakaya kikwete juu ya uvunjaji wa mkataba wa jumuiya hiyo .
uamuzi wa bunge wa kukataa mapendekezo ya serikali ya kuongezea makali sheria ya mgazeti namba tatu ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inajulikana kuwa ni kandamizi dhidi ya uhuru wa habari nchini , huku ikiungwa mkono na wabunge wachache imethibisha kuwa bado kuna wanasiasa maadui wa uhuru wa habari nchini .
bunge limepitisha muswada wa sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , huku serikali ikiahidi kuwa wengi watakaoteuliwa na rais kuwa wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba kutoka asasi za kiraia na kidini , watakuwa ni wanawake .
wakati bunge likiiagiza serikali kuleta muswada mzima wa sheria ya vyombo vya habari ujadiliwe na kupitishwa na bunge hilo , limepinga adhabu ya faini ya makosa ya kuchapisha habari ya uchochezi ya sh .
wabunge jana waliandika historia mpya baada ya kuweka tofauti zao pembeni na kuunga mkono kwa kauli moja mapendekezo ya muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , ambayo pamoja na mengine , yameongeza idadi ya wajumbe wa bunge maalumu la katiba kutoka 166 hadi 201 kutoka nje ya wabunge na wawakilishi .
rais jakaya kikwete amewapa vidonge marais wa kenya , uganda na rwanda , kwa kufanya mambo yanayoigawa jumuiya ya afrika mashariki ( eac ) na kueleza kuwa msimamo wa tanzania ndio uliopelekea kutengwa na viongozi hao .
hasira ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) ambayo ilikuwa ikichemka kiasi cha kuanza kuzusha hofu kuwa wangesusa kujadili marekebisho ya sheria ya marekebisho ya sheia ya mbadiliko ya katiba , imeyeyuka baada ya mkutano kati yao na rais jakaya kikwete uliodumu kwa zaidi ya sa tatu juzi mjini dosoma .
serikali imesema iko kwenye mchakato wa kuzifanyia marekebisho sheria ya haki na kinga ya wabunge , vyama vya siasa na ile ya vyama vya kiraia .
mwanasheria mkuu wa serikali ( ag ) , jaji frederick werema , alisema hayo jana wakati akijibu hoja za wabunge waliochangia muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria mbalimbali , uliowasilishwa naye , bungeni juzi .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti namba tatu ya mwaka 1976 yaliyowasilishwa bungeni , ikisema hayana msingi kwa kuwa hakuna ushahidi unaoonyesha adhabu zilizoko katika baadhi ya vifungu vyake vilivyopendekezwa na serikali kuongezwa , kama vimeshindwa kudhibiti makosa ya uchochezi .
serikali imeendelea kuteswa na uamuzi wake wa utata kufuta daraja la sifuri katika matokeo ya kidato cha pili na baadaye kutangaza kulirejesha kufuatia malalamiko ya wadau .
suala hilo liliibuka bungeni jana baada ya mbunge wa kawe ( chadema ) , halima mdee , kumshukia naibu waziri wa elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , philip mulugo , akihoji hatua anazopasa kuchukuliwa kwa mujibu wa kanuni za bunge kwa madai ya kutoa kauli za uongo na za kubahatishabahatisha bungeni .
wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi imebatilisha uamuzi wake wa kubadili mfumo wa upangaji wa madaraja ya ufaulu kwa mitihani ya kidato cha nne kama ilivyotolewa awali kwa kurudisha daraja sifuri .
mbunge wa viti maalumu ( ccm ) , ester bulaya , amewasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi akiitaka serikali pamoja na mambo mengine , kufanya mabadiliko ya sheria ya dawa za kulevya na kuanzisha mahakama maalumu ya kushughulikia wahalifu wa dawa hizo .
hatimaye bunge limepokea muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 kutoka serikalini , ambao unatarajiwa kuwasilishwa bungeni kwa hati ya dharura , katika mkutano wake wa 13 unaoendelea leo .
hatimaye utaratibu wa bunge wa kuwa na kanuni za kuwadhibiti wabunge kimaadili ’ umeiva ’ , ambao pamoja na mambo mengine , zinazuia mbunge yeyote kufanya fujo au kuzomea akiwa bungeni .
wabunge jana waliweka tofauti zao pembeni na kuungana ’ kuiwakia ’ serikali bungeni , wakitaka waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda na waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki wajiuzulu au wawajibishwe na rais .
wananchi kadhaa wamepinga vikali hatua ya wabunge ya kuitaka serikali inawaongezee maslahi ikiwamo mishahara kwa madai kuwa wanalipwa kiasi kidogo kulinganisha na wa nchi zingine .
wabunge hao walitoa madai hayo jumanne wiki hii wakati wa mkutano wao mjini dodoma .
mbunge wa bahi , omar baduwel , anatuhumiwa kutafuna fedha za mfuko wa jimbo zilizokuwa zikirejeshwa na wananchi baada ya kukopeshwamajembe ya kukokotwa na ng ’ ombe .
mbali na hilo pia mbunge huyo anadaiwa kutafuna fedha za mradi wa maji wa kijiji cha chibelela ambao serikali kupitia mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ilitenga sh .
wabunge wamekuja juu wakilalamikia uduni wa maslahi wanayopata katika kazi zao za ubunge na hivyo kutaka yaboreshwe .
maslahi hayo ni pamoja na mishahara , posho na mengine yanayohusisha wasaidizi wa wabunge .
kashfa ya tuhuma dhidi ya baadhi ya wabunge na mawaziri kuhusika katika ujangili wa kuua tembo na kufanya biashara haramu ya meno yake , imetikisa bunge .
hali hiyo ilitokea jana bungeni , baada ya mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola , kuhoji sababu za serikali kushikwa na kigugumizi na kukwepa kuwachukulia hatua watuhumiwa hao , hali inayozua wasiwasi juu ya uwezekano wa kuwapo hali ya kulindana .
baadhi ya wajumbe wa halmashauri kuu ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) wa wilaya ya kilombero mkoani morogoro , wamemlalamikia mbunge wa kilombero , abdallah mteketa , kwa madai ya kutoshiriki kikamilifu katika utekelezaji wa ilani ya chama hicho jimboni kwake .
mkutano wa 13 wa bunge unaanza leo mjini hapa , huku suala la katiba ya mpya ya tanzania ambayo mchakato wa mabadiliko yake unaendelea , likitarajia kuutawala na kuwagawa wabunge kwa mara nyingine .
mbunge wa sengerema , william ngeleja , amesema mazingira yasiyoridhisha katika shule nyingi za serikali , ni chanzo cha kushuka kwa elimu na matokeo mabaya kwa wanafunzi .
ngeleja aliyasema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki wakati wa mahafali ya kidato cha nne katika shule ya sekondari lilian kibo , iliyoko goba jijini dar es salaam .
wakati mkutano wa bunge maalum la katiba ukitarajia kuanza mwezi ujao , imedaiwa kuwa vyama vya upinzani vilishawahi kupendekeza kuwa wajumbe wa bunge hilo wachaguliwe kwa kupigiwa kura au wateuliwe ili kuondoa uwezekano wa katiba mpya kupitishwa na wajumbe wanaotoka chama tawala pekee .
watu 20 wa familia moja akiwamo ofisa mtendaji wa kata katika kitongoji cha igogo a kata ya nyampurukano wilayani sengerema , wamelazwa katika hospitali teule ya wilaya hiyo baada ya kula chakula kinachohofiwa kuwa na sumu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda amesema mishahara ya wabunge wa tanzania siyo mikubwa kulinganisha na wanayolipwa wabunge wa mabunge mengine duniani .
alitoa kauli hiyo wakati akijibu maswali ya waandishi wa habari waliotaka ufafanuzi kuhusu kauli yake juu ya mpango wa bunge wa kuwaokoa wabunge dhidi ya hali mbaya ya maisha , ambayo huwakabili wanapokuwa wamestaafu ubunge .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) , itakutana na waziri mkuu , mizengo pinda na waziri wa tamisemi , hawa ghasia , kujadili ubadhilifu kwenye halmashauri 70 ambazo ni ’ mchwa ’ mla fedha za umma .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema mamlaka ya majisafi na majitaka dar es salaam ( dawasa ) inajiendesha kwa hasara tangu ilipoanzishwa mwaka 1997 .
kaimu mwenyekiti wa kamati hiyo , ismail aden rage ( pichani ) , alibainisha hayo jana baada ya mahojiano ya watendaji wa mamlaka hiyo na kamati wamebaini inajiendesha kwa hasara .
maandalizi ya bunge maalumu la katiba yanazidi kupamba moto na sasa mafunzo kwa wabunge yameanza kutolewa jinsi ya kuichambua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ya mwaka 2013 katika bunge hilo linalotarajiwa kuanza mwezi ujao .
rais jakaya kikwete jana alikutana na viongozi wa vyama sita vya siasa vyenye uwakilishi bungeni , ikulu , jijini dar es salaam na kukubaliana mambo makuu mawili .
la kwanza , vyama vyote vya siasa vyenye mawazo , maoni na mapendekezo ya kuboresha muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , kuyawasilisha haraka serikalini ili kutafuta namna ya kuyashirikisha katika marekebisho ya sheria hiyo .
kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza ofisi ya msajili wa vyama vya siasa nchini , kuzuia ruzuku ya kila mwezi kwa vyama baada ya kubainika kuwa kwa miaka minne mfululizo vimekuwa vikikwepa kukaguliwa mahesabu yao .
vyama 16 vya siasa vyenye usajili wa kudumu visivyokuwa na uwakilishi bungeni vimeomba kukutana na rais jakaya kikwete kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu mambo mbalimbali yanayohusu mchakato wa mabadiliko ya katiba ya nchi .
wabunge wamesema serikali imekuwa ikipoteza fedha za kigeni katika sekta ya utalii kutokana na watalii wengi wanaofika kulipia kiwango kidogo cha fedha , huku wakilipa fedha nyingi katika nchi wanazotoka kwa ajili ya kutembelea vivutio vya utalii nchini .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) imemuagiza mkuu wa wilaya ya arusha , john mongella kumsaka mstahiki meya wa arusha , gaudence lyimo , ili apelekwe kwenye kamati hiyo kwa ajili ya kusuluhishwa mvutano wake na mkurugenzi wa jiji la arusha , sipora liana .
rais jakaya kikwete na wenyeviti wa vyama vya chadema , cuf na nccr-mageuzi , sasa watakutana kwa ajili ya mazungumzo kuhusu muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba ya mwaka 2013 , unaodaiwa na vyama hivyo kuwa una kasoro , ikulu , jumanne wiki ijayo .
mbunge wa dodoma mjini , david malolle ( ccm ) , ametangaza rasmi kujitoa kwenye ujumbe wa bodi ya mamlaka ya ustawishaji makao makuu ( cda ) na kuwataka wananchi kuandamana ili mamlaka hiyo ifutwe kwani imekuwa ikibomoa mji na si kuuboresha .
uhuru wa vyombo vya habari umezidi kutiwa kitanzini kufuatia serikali kupanga kuwasilisha katika bunge mwezi huu , muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mbalimbali ya mwaka 2013 ikiwamo sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 ambayo sasa faini itaongezwa kwa chombo cha habari kinachofanya kosa kwa kiwango cha asilimia 3,233 .
bunge limesema limepokea taarifa rasmi iliyowasilishwa na mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini ( chadema ) , zitto kabwe , ya kukusudia kuwasilisha bungeni muswada binafsi wa marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 , kwa lengo la kuifuta kabisa sheria hiyo .
licha ya jeshi la polisi kutumia nguvu kubwa ya kumsaka mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) kwa kumvamia nyumbani kwake usiku , kuizingira wakiwa wamejihami kwa silaha nzito na mabomu ya machozi kisha kumkamata na kumfunga pingu , baadaye kumfungulia mashitaka ya uchochezi , serikali imeamua kufuta mashitaka hayo .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wa sokoine drive , jijini dar es salaam , jana ilishindwa kutoa uamuzi dhidi ya kesi ya kuuza sukari iliyo haribika inayoikabili kampuni ya tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) baada ya wakili wa utetezi , dennis msafiri , kushindwa kufika mahamani hapo kwa madai ya kuumwa .
mahakama kuu tanzania , kanda ya dar es salaam , imesema itatoa uamuzi desemba 12 , mwaka huu dhidi pingamizi zitakazowasilishwa na upande wa mlalamikiwa kwa njia ya maandishi dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa ccm , abdulrahman kinana .
tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba imelishangaa bunge kwa ’ undumila kuwili ’ wake wa kupitisha sheria mbili zinazokinzana kuhusiana na mchakato unaosimamiwa na tume hiyo .
mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba alitoa kauli hiyo jana jijini dar es salaam wakati akizungumza na waandishi wa habari , kwa lengo la kuwapa taarifa ya uendeshaji wa mabaraza ya katiba , ngazi ya serikali za mitaa ulivyofanyika .
wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi imesema kwa sasa haina fedha za kutekeleza agizo la kamati ya hesaba za serikali ( pac ) la kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi ( analojia ) .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , stephen wassira , amekoleza mjadala wa mchakato wa katiba mpya baada ya kuyataka makundi vikiwamo vyama vya upinzani kama vina hoja za msingi zitakazofanya usisainiwe muswada wa marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wampelekee rais .
tunaondoa wahamiaji haramu , siyo wakimbizi , kikwete aliambia bunge la marekani rais jakaya kikwete ameiambia kamati ya bunge la marekani kuwa tanzania haijafukuza mkimbizi hata mmoja kutoka nchini na wanaoondolewa ni wahamiaji haramu walioingia na kuishi nchini bila kufuata taratibu na sheria za uhamiaji .
mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya umeendelea kupingwa , baada ya wanaharakati kuungana na kutoa tamko la kutaka usiharakishwe huku na rais jakaya kikwete , kutousaini muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba kutokana na kutokuwapo kwa uelewa mpana hususani maeneo ya ukinzani likiwamo suala la muungano .
vyama vya nccr-mageuzi , cuf na chadema , vimeungana kupinga mchakato wa katiba mpya kwa madai kuwa umehodhiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kutawaliwa na ubabe wa kanuni na sheria za bunge kwa kuunyima upande wa zanzibar haki ya kushiriki .
serikali imesema miongoni mwa wanaokwamisha vita dhidi ya ujangili ni wabunge kutokana na baadhi yao kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu .
pamoja na kuwataja wabunge ambao ndiyo watunga sheria nchini , serikali imesema pia vita hiyo inashindwa kupata mafanikio kutokana na kuwa na mtandao mkubwa wa wafanyabiashara wakubwa na maofisa wa serikali kujihusisha na biashara hiyo .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania imeombwa kutupa rufaa ya kupinga hukumu ya mahakama kuu iliyothibitisha mbunge wa singida mashariki kupitia chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , kuwa alishinda kihalali katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2010 kwa madai kuwa mlalamikaji wa kwanza katika kesi hiyo , shaaban selema amehamia chama hicho .
upelelezi wa tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi maarufu kama sugu ( chadema ) , bado unaendelea .
sugu aliripoti kituo cha polisi mjini hapa majira ya asubuhi akiwa ameongozana na wakili wake , mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu .
mhadhiri wa chuo kikukuu cha dar es salaam , profesa chris maina , amesema kuna hofu ya kuwa na katiba yenye mtazamo wa chama kimoja cha siasa kutokana na utaratibu uliowekwa wa wajumbe wanaotakiwa kushiriki kwenye bunge la maalumu la katiba .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amewataka waumini wa dini kujifunza wajibu wao wa kutoa sadaka nzuri na kuacha kupokea fedha chafu .
alisema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki akiwa mgeni rasmi wakati wa harambee ya kuchangia mfuko wa maendeleo wa parokia ya mtakatifu francis xaver , iliyopo olosipa eneo la sakina kwa iddi .
muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umezidi kuibua mapya , baada ya chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kudai kwamba , kikao cha bunge kilichofanya maamuzi ya kuupitisha hakikuwa halali .
wakati mbunge wa mbeya mjini ( chadema ) , joseph mbilinyi , maarufu kwa jina la sugu , akielezewa kujisalimisha polisi , huenda akakabiliwa na hatari ya kufikishwa mahakamani kwa makosa ya jinai .
muswada wa sheria wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , umepitishwa ' kiulani ’ na wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) huku wenzao wa upinzani wakisusia .
tofauti na ilivyotarajiwa na wengi kwamba muswada huo ungekwamishwa ama kupita kwa mbinde , lakini ulipitishwa jana kwa kufanyiwa mabadiliko madogo na wabunge wa ccm walioshiriki kikamilifu kuujadili kwa kuzungumza na wengine kwa maandishi .
muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umeligawa bunge , baada ya wabunge kutoka vyama vya chadema , nccr-mageuzi na cuf kususia mjadala wa muswada huo na kutoka nje ya ukumbi wa bunge na kuwaacha wabunge wa ccm na augustine mrema wa tlp .
baadhi ya washiriki wa mkutano wa 10 wa umoja wa kamati za bunge za hesabu za serikali kwa nchi za jumuiya ya maendeleo ya kusini mwa afrika ( sadcopac ) , wamevitaka vyama vilivyounda serikali zilizopo madarakani kuwapa uhuru wa majadiliano na usimamiaji wa hoja zenye maslahi ya umma ndani ya vikao vya bunge .
tanzania kwa mara ya kwanza katika historia ya bunge la afrika mashariki imefanikiwa kupata kikao rasmi katika ratiba ya vikao vya bunge hilo .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge watanzania katika bunge la afrika mashariki , adam kimbisa , alisema tanzania kama nchi pia imefanikiwa kupata kikao chake .
daftarila kudumu la wapigakura linapaswa kufanyiwa maboresho kila wakati ili kuwawezesha watanzania wanaofikisha umri wa miaka 18 waandikishwe , mmoja wa wajumbe wa mabaraza ya katiba amependekeza .
wabunge wamekishambulia vikali chama kilele ( apex ) , cha kusambaza pembejeo kwa wakulima nchini na kuitaka serikali kukifutilia mbali kutokana na sababu kadhaa ikiwamo ya kuwanyonya wakulima .
bunge limeishauri serikali kuweka utaratibu wa kuwabana wabadhirifu wa fedha za vyama vya ushirika na kama watathibitika kuhusika na kosa hilo , wafilisiwe mali zao zote pamoja na kufidia hasara iliyopatikana .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imemshushia tuhuma nzito waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki ( pichani ) , ikiwamo ya kushinikiza mradi upewe msaada wa sh. milioni 10 kutoka mamlaka ya hifadhi ya ngorongoro ( ncaa ) kinyume cha taratibu .
kikao cha bunge kinatarajia kuendelea leo mjini hapa baada ya mapumziko ya mwishoni mwa wiki huku miswada miwili ya sheria kati ya sita iliyopangwa kuwasilishwa katika mkutano wa bunge wa 12 , kujadiliwa ikiondolewa .
baraza la kitaasisi la wanawake wanahabari , limesema katiba mpya iainishe suala la usawa katika nyanja zote za uongozi ikiwa ni pamoja na uongozi wa mihimili mikuu mitatu ya utawala yaani serikali , bunge na mahakama .
mvutano uliokuwapo kati ya wabunge wa rwanda , uganda na kenya kutaka vikao vya bunge la afrika ya mashariki ( eala ) vifanyike kwa mzunguko kwa nchi wanachama , huku tanzania wakipinga umemalizika kwa makubaliano kila nchi kifanyike kikao kimoja katika kalenda ya mwaka .
mbio za kugombea urais katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2015 kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) zimeanza kuchukua sura mpya , baada ya baadhi ya vigogo kujitokeza hadharani kumpigia debe spika wa bunge , anne makinda .
kauli iliyotolewa juzi bungeni na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuwa wabunge wengi ni miongoni mwa orodha ya majina ya wanaojihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya , imeoonekana kuwachefua wabunge .
sakata la biashara ya dawa za kulevya sasa limechukua sura mpya baada ya jana waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kulieleza bunge kuwa iwapo serikali itaamua kuwataja vigogo wa biashara hiyo nchini kama inavyopewa taarifa kutoka vyanzo mbalimbali , hakuna atakayepona kwani miongoni mwao wamo wabunge wengi .
wakati wananchi wakiwa hawajajua majaliwa yao juu maamuzi ya serikali kuhusu kilio chao dhidi ya kodi ya simu ya sh .
1,000 kwa mwezi iliyopitishwa na bunge la bajeti ya mwaka 2013 / 14 , kuna habari kwamba mzigo huo sasa unaweza kuhamishiwa kwenye ununuaji wa vocha .
mkutano wa 12 wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania unatarajiwa kuanza mjini hapa leo ambapo pamoja na mambo mengine , utajadili miswada sita .
kwa mujibu wa ratiba iliyotolewa na ofisi ya bunge hapa jana , kikao kitaanza saa 3 : 00 asubuhi kwa kipindi cha maswali na majibu na baadaye kufuatiwa na muswada wa sheria ya taifa ya umwagiliaji wa mwaka 2013 ambao utajadiliwa hadi kesho jumatano .
tegemeo la umma kwa serikali kuwasilisha bungeni muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria iliyoanzisha tozo la shilingi 1,000 kwa mwezi kwa watumiaji wa simu za kiganjani , limetoweka .
hali hiyo inatokana na bunge kupanga ratiba ya shughuli zake kwa mkutano wa 12 unaoanza jumanne wiki ijayo mjini dodoma , pasipo kuwapo muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya fedha inayoanzisha tozo za simu .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema kuwa taarifa ya matumizi ya fedha katika wizara ya ujenzi , ina shaka kwani kuna fedha ambazo ziliombwa kwa ajili ya miradi ambayo haipo .
shirika la nyumba la taifa ( nhc ) , limesema baadhi ya wanasiasa walioko katika mamlaka za juu serikalini , watu maarufu pamoja na matajiri , wamekuwa wakiendesha vitendo vya hujuma za makusudi kwa nia mbaya ya kukwamisha kasi ya utendaji kazi mzuri wa shirika .
kamati ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi zote , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi , yaani analojia .
kamati tatu za bunge zimelalamikia sheria ya maadili ya viongozi wa umma kwamba haiweki uwazi wa kutangaza umiliki wa mali za viongozi hivyo kusababisha viongozi kutoweka wazi mali wanazomiliki .
mbunge wa urambo mashariki ( ccm ) , samuel sitta , amesema mahasimu wake kisiasa , wameimarisha mkakati wa kumchonganisha na wabunge , ili kufifisha jitihada zake za kupambana na ufisadi .
kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira imesema vigogo wakubwa wa serikali wanaongoza kwa kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu ndiyo maana zoezi la kuzuia majangili halifanikiwi kwa miaka mingi .
madudu zaidi yamebainika katika wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , baada ya kuwapanga baadhi ya wanafunzi wa kidato cha tano kwenye shule ambazo hazina masomo ya michepuo yao .
hii ni baada ya wanafunzi 1,189 waliochaguliwa kujiunga kidato cha tano katika shule mbalimbali nchini kubadilishwa na kupangiwa shule nyingine .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa mtwara imetupilia mbali mashtaka ya uchochezi yaliyokuwa yakimkabili mbunge wa mtwara mjini ( ccm ) , hasnain murji , hivyo ameachiwa huru .
murji alikuwa akikabiliwa na tuhuma za uchochezi wa vurugu za kupinga kujengwa bomba la kusafirisha gesi asilia kutoka mkoani mtwara hadi jijini dar es salaam , zilizosababisha vifo vya watu watatu na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa mei , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa masasi mjini , mariam kasembe ( ccm ) , amemwaga machozi mbele ya waziri wa maji , profesa jumanne maghembe , baada ya kutembele nyumba yake iliyoteketezwa kwa moto na wananchi katika vurugu zilizotokea machi , mwaka huu .
wajumbe wa kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) wamekuja juu kutokana na ujenzi wa soko la mwanjelwa la halmashauri ya jiji la mbeya kusuasua na kuiomba serikali kuingilia baada ya mkandarasi kudaiwa kuandika barua ya kuomba kusitisha mkataba .
wakati jeshi la polisi likitoa visingizio kwamba linashindwa kunasa watuhumiwa wanaosafirisha dawa za kulevya wanaopitia uwanja wa ndege wa kimataifa wa julius nyerere ( jnia ) , kutokana na kukosekana kwa vitendea kazi , mbunge wa kinondoni ( ccm ) , idd azzan , amesema yupo tayari kupigwa risasi au kunyongwa hadharani kama itathibitika anahusika na biashara hiyo .
serikali sasa imekubali kuwa kodi mpya ya laini ya simu ni mgogoro na inakusudia kurejesha muswada wa sheria ulioazisha kodi hiyo bungeni kwa mjadala zaidi .
waziri wa ushirikiano wa afrika mashariki , samuel sitta ( pichani ) , amesema litakuwa jambo la kuchekesha duniani iwapo nchi maskini kama tanzania itakuwa na marais watatu kama muundo wa serikali tatu uliopendekezwa kwenye rasimu ya katiba mpya utapitishwa .
waziri wa uchukuzi , dk .
harrison mwakyembe , ametoa misaada yenye thamani ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 40 jimboni mwake yakiwamo madawati 315 yatakayogawanywa kwa shule za msingi za jimbo la kyela mkoani mbeya .
hatimaye serikali imetoa tamko kuhusu kuwatoza watumiaji wa simu za mkononi kiasi cha sh.1000 kama kodi kila mwezi kwa madai ya kwamba kodi hiyo ilisharidhiwa na kupitishwa na wabunge wenyewe na kwamba inalenga kuboresha huduma mbalimbali za kijamii nchini .
naibu spika , job ndugai , amewataka wananchi kutoa taarifa katika ofisi ya bunge pale wanapobaini kuwapo kwa matumizi mabaya ya fedha za mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ( cgf ) .
ndugai alisema zipo taratibu zinazotakiwa kufuatwa katika matumizi ya fedha hizo ambazo pamoja na kwamba mbunge ni mwenyekiti wa mfuko huo , lakini haruhusiwi kufanya manunuzi mwenyewe .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa dodoma , imemfutia mashtaka na kumwachia huru , mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi , ( chadema ) , maarufu sugu baada ya kuthibitisha kuwa hati ya mashtaka ina mapungufu ya kisheria .
hofu ya kutopatikana tija kwa fedha nyingi zinazoidhinishwa katika bajeti kwa ajili ya miradi ya kupambana na ukimwi imesababisha makadirio ya matumizi ya ofisi ya makamu wa kwanza wa rais zanzibar maalim seif sharif hamad , kukwama kupitishwa .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa ameitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawajengea askari nyumba bora ili waweze kuishi katika mazingira mazuri .
msigwa alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza kwa kuitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawaboreshea makazi askari wa jeshi la polisi hususani askari wa iringa mjini kutokana na kuishi katika nyumba alizosema hazina hadhi .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimetajwa kuwa kimeongoza kwa wabunge wake 48 kutoa michango 57 kwenye vikao mbalimbali vya bunge vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma .
tathmini hiyo ya miaka miwili ya bunge ilifanywa na shirika lisilo la kiserikali , twaweza kwa kushirikiana na kituo cha economic prosperity ( cep ) kwa kuzingatia ushiriki wa wabunge katika vikao kwa miaka miwili ya kipindi cha ubunge cha 2010 – 2015 .
jana bunge lilipitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 huku ikiweka kiporo suala la kupunguza kodi ya mafuta ya petroli , dizeli na taa , kodi ya lipa kadiri unavyopata ( paye ) na bodaboda , badala yake kodi hizo zitatolewa ufafanuzi katika muswada wa fedha utakapowasilishwa bungeni kesho kutwa .
waziri wa fedha , dk .
william mgimwa , leo atakuwa kikaangoni atakapoanza kujibu hoja za wabunge hasa ongezeko la ushuru wa mafuta ya petroli ambalo limelalamikiwa na baadhi ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuwa ina mapungufu kadhaa .
mbunge wa nkasi kaskazini , ali keissy ( ccm ) , amewataka watanzania kuwa makini na sheria mpya ya ndoa inayotarajiwa kuletwa bungeni .
mbunge huyo amesema sheria hiyo mpya inaweza ikasababisha nchi kuongozwa na rais , wabunge na madiwani wanaojihusisha na vitendo vya mapenzi ya jinsia moja ( mashoga ) .
mbunge wa korogwe vijijini , stephen ngonyani maarufu profesa majimarefu ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha wanasiasa kuacha kupandikiza mbegu ya ukabila nchini kwa sababu hali hiyo inakwamisha jitihada za kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
mbunge wa kasulu mjini , moses machali ( nccr-mageuzi ) , amejeruhiwa baada ya kupigwa na watu wasiojulikana karibu na nyumbani kwake wakati akitokea kuhudhuria vikao vya bunge .
aidha , kijana mmoja aliyekuwa akimsaidia machali , alijeruhiwa kwa kung ’ atwa meno mgongoni .
mbunge wa viti maalum , clara mwatuka ( cuf ) , amelikana swali lake na kudai kuwa hakuwahi kuuliza swali linalohusu rada hata siku moja . & ldquo ; mheshimiwa spika & hellip ; tangu niingie bungeni hapa sijawahi kuuliza swali linalohusu masuala ya rada hata siku moja kwa hiyo hilo si swali langu , & rdquo ; alisema hata hivyo , spika wa bunge , anne makinda alipoona mbunge huyo amelikana swali hilo alisema : & ldquo ; waziri naomba basi hilo swali liwe langu .
mbunge wa bukene , seleman zedi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kuliwezesha shirika la maendeleo ya petroli ( tpdc ) , ili lidhibiti na kusimamia kampuni zinazojishughulisha na utafiti wa mafuta na gesi nchi ipate faida .
kamati maalum ya kuchunguza mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi asilia kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , imesema imefikia katika hatua nzuri baada ya kuwasikiliza watu wengi wanaohusika na mgogoro huo .
wakati mbunge wa dole , sylivester mabumba ( ccm ) , akiomba serikali kuunda tume ya kuwachunguza maofisa wa mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) wenye mali za kupindukia , mbunge wa manyoni magharibi , john lwenje ( ccm ) ameomba wafanyakazi wa wizara ya fedha waondolewe badala yake wakodiwe wataalam wazungu kufanya kazi hiyo .
serikali sasa isikilize hoja hizi za wabunge kuhusu bajeti ya 2013 / 14 jumatatu ijayo wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania watapitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 iliyowasilishwa bungeni wiki iliyopita .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee , ameanza mazoezi makali kwa ajili ya kumkabili nyota wa filamu nchini , jacqueline wolper , katika moja ya mapambano ya ndondi za utangulizi yatakayofanyika kwenye tamasha la matumaini kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam julai 7 .
mbunge wa sumbawanga mjini ( ccm ) , hillary aeshi , amemlipua mbunge wa zamani wa jimbo la kwela , chrisant mzindakaya , akidai amemilikishwa nyumba 15 za serikali peke yake wilayani sumbawanga .
taarifa ya serikali iliyosomwa bungeni jana na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuhusiana na tukio la shambulizi la bomu jijini arusha jumamosi iliyopita , imemchafua mwenyekiti wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , freeman mbowe .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni jana ilishindwa kuwasilisha bajeti mbadala bungeni kwa mwaka wa fedha 2013 / 2014 baada ya wabunge wake kutohudhuria kikao hicho .
hata hivyo , kambi hiyo ilitoa hotuba yake kwa vyombo vya habari ikieleza kutumia sh .
mbunge wa mbozi mashariki , godfrey zambi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kutoa tamko kuhusu kauli ya mkurugezi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa ( takukuru ) , dk .
edward hosea , kuwa amefungwa mikono kuwashtaki vigogo wanaojihusisha na rushwa kubwa kubwa badala yake amepewa uwezo wa kushitaki makosa madogo madogo ongezeko la manunuzi na matumizi makubwa ya serikali , ambalo hayaendi sambamba na ongezeko la juhudi za ukusanyaji wa mapato , yataendelea kuwa mzigo mzito kwa taifa iwapo hatua hazitachukuliwa kurekebisha hali hiyo .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina , amesema hataiunga mkono bajeti ya serikali ya 2013 / 2014 kwa sababu haina jipya ikiwamo kukosekana kwa vyanzo vipya vya mapato na nidhamu katika upangaji wa matumizi .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , amewashukia wabunge akisema kwamba hawana mtandao wa pamoja katika kusimamia masuala yanayogusa maslahi ya nchi .
amesema wengi wao kila mmoja huwa anajibu hoja yake mwenyewe bila kuwashirikisha wenzake ili aonekane ndiye mwanzilishi .
serikali imetangaza bajeti yake ya mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 ambayo imepandisha kodi za & hellip ; & hellip ; ili kufanikisha lengo la kukusanya jumla ya sh. trilioni 18.249 kutoka kwenye vyanzo vya ndani na nje .
wabunge wamelalamikia ongezeko la kodi katika mafuta ya petroli wakisema litachangia kupandisha zaidi gharama za maisha kwa wananchi .
lawama hizo walizitoa jana wakati wakitoa maoni yao kuhusu bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 iliyosomwa na waziri wa fedha , dk .
serikali imebuni mfumo mpya wa usambazaji wa pembejeo utakaotumika katika msimu wa kilimo wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa kilimo , chakula na ushirika , adam malima aliliambia bunge mjini hapa jana kuwa , mfumo huo umejadiliwa katika semina ya usambazaji wa pembejeo iliyofanyika mei mwaka huu .
zao la mwani limeanza kukosa soko visiwani hapa na kutokana na mahitaji yake kuwa madogo katika soko la dunia ikilinganishwa na kiwango kikubwa kinachozalishwa na wakulima wa unguja na pemba .
katibu wa mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain murji , meckland millanzi , ameiomba mahakama ya wilaya ya mtwara kutenda haki , bila kushinikizwa na upande wowote ili haki itendeke dhidi ya mbunge huyo , ambaye yuko rumande kwa kushindwa kutimiza masharti ya dhamana .
macho na masikio ya wananchi kesho yanaelekezwa dodoma kusikiliza bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 itakayowasilishwa majira ya saa 10 jioni .
hii ni bajeti muhimu sana kwa wananchi kwa sababu ndiyo itakayofafanua mipango ya maendeleo ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
mbunge wa mkinga , dastan kitandula , amesema serikali inapoteza sh. bilioni 26 kwa mwaka kutokana na makampuni matano ya uchimbaji wa madini ambayo yamegoma kulipa kodi .
kutokana na hali hiyo , mbunge huyo ametaka kujua hatua za haraka zinazochukuliwa na serikali kuhakikisha kampuni hizo zinalipa kodi hizo .
mbunge wa jimbo la kilwa kusini , selemani bungara , amewataka wachezaji wa soka kujituma zaidi wawapo mashindanoni kutokana na mchezo huo sasa kugeuka ajira inayolipa .
hayo yalisemwa na diwani wa kata ya masoko , abdallah abbas kwa niaba ya mbunge huyo wakati wa ufunguzi wa mashindano ya kombe la bungara yanayoshirikisha kata mbili za kivinje na masoko zilizopo wilayani kilwa .
wabunge wamepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya uchaguzi wa mamlaka za serikali za mitaa yanayolenga kuongeza muda usiozidi miezi sita inapoonekana kwamba kesi za uchaguzi wa madiwani haziwezi kuhitimishwa ndani ya miezi 18 .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , susan lyimo amependekeza kuwa rais ambaye anamaliza muda wake wa utawala huku akiwa ameshindwa kutekeleza ahadi alizotoa kwenye kampeni za uchaguzi kupelekwa mahakamani .
waziri wa nchi katika ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia , amesema wakaguzi wa ndani ambao watabainika kuwa ripoti zao hazina mapungufu ambayo yameainishwa na mkaguzi wa nje watachukuliwa hatua .
hatimaye hali ya amani katika eneo la kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde imeanza kutengemaa baada ya kikundi cha ushirika wa chai cha kwaminyasa waliokuwa wamezingira kiwanda hicho kwa kuzuia kuendelea kwa shughuli za uendeshaji kuamriwa kuondoka mara moja na serikali ya mkoa wa tanga .
tamashala matumaini ambalo mwaka jana lilifanyika kwenye uwanja wa taifa , dar es salaam , mwaka huu tena linarejea kwenye uwanja huo julai 7 ambapo kutakuwa na burudani na michezo mbalimbali .
mgawanyiko umeibuka miongoni mwa wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , ukihusishwa na masuala ya udini katika kupitisha bajeti za wizara zilizowasilishwa bungeni .
vyanzo vya habari kutoka ndani ya kamati ya wabunge hao , vimeeleza kuwa , licha ya chama hicho kuwa katika makundi yanayopingika kwa misimamo , wameibuka wabunge wanaotumia mianya ya kidini kupenyeza ajenda zao .
ile ’ nyundo ’ inayotumiwa kuwashughulikia wabunge wanaotokana na vyama vya siasa , inaelekea kuzikwa rasmi , baada ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya mwaka 2013 , iliyozinduliwa jumatatu wiki hii , kupendekeza kwamba uamuzi wa vyama hivyo wa kuwafukuza au kuwavua uanachama , hautapoteza ubunge wao .
kambi ya upinzani imeibua sakata la ufisadi wa shilingi bilioni 133 kwenye akaunti ya madeni ya nje ( epa ) ikihoji mambo kadhaa ikiwamo kiasi cha fedha zilizorejeshwa hadi sasa .
mwenyekiti wa chama cha nccr-mageuzi , james mbatia , ameitaka serikali kusitisha usambazaji wa nakala za vitabu na mihutasari inayofikia milioni 18 , akiviita kuwa ni ’ sumu kwa kizazi cha tanzania ’ .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , suzan lyimo , ameibana serikali akiitaka ilielezea taifa kwanini mawaziri wametoa kauli mbili tofauti kuhusiana na upangaji wa matokeo ya kidato cha nne kwa kutumia mfumo mpya wa fixed grade ranges , ambao unaelezwa kusababisha wanafunzi wengi kufeli .
bunge juzi lilipitisha makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi baada ya kuwako kwa mjadala mkali na wa kina juu ya utendaji wa wizara hii .
mambo mengi ya kimsingi yaliwekwa wazi hasa juu ya kuendelea kuporomoka kwa ubora wa elimu nchini .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , steven wassira na makamu mkuu wa chuo kikuu cha mtakatifu agustino ( saut ) , dk.charles kitima , wametoana jasho kwenye mhadhara wa jumuiya ya wanafunzi wa saut , wakati walipokuwa wakijadili dhana ya maendeleo na amani ya nchi .
wakati umma ukiendelea kujadili rasimu ya katiba mpya iliyotolewa na tume ya katiba , kundi ambalo linaelekea kukumbwa na kimbunga kikubwa ni watu waliokuwa wanausaka ubunge ili kupata nafasi za uwaziri .
mbunge wa rombo ( chadema ) , joseph selasini , ’ amemshukia ’ mbunge wa mbinga magharibi ( ccm ) , john komba , kwa kutunga na kuimba nyimbo zinazochochea kuvuruga amani , umoja na mshikamano nchini .
kuna dalili kwamba tume ya katiba mpya chini ya mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba , imetaga yai la dhahabu .
pamoja na kila aina ya udhaifu ambao unaweza kutajwa kuwamo ndani ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania iliyowekwa hadharani jumatatu wiki hii , bado ukweli mmoja unabakia umesimama wima na kuonekana wazi na kila muungwana na anayeitakia nchi hii mema .
mbunge wa ccm ailipua serikali matokeo mabaya kidato cha nne kasi ya wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , kukosoa utekelezaji wa serikali ya rais jakaya kikwete inazidi kuongezeka ndani ya bunge .
jana , mbunge wa ngara ( ccm ) , deogratias ntukamazina , aliikosoa serikali hiyo kwa kuyafuta matokeo ya mtihani wa kidato cha nne kwa mwaka 2012 , kisha kuyatangaza utangaza upya hivi karibuni .
vyama vya wafanyakazi , wanasheria na walemavu vimesema rasimu ya katiba mpya utaleta katiba nzuri .
katibu mkuu wa chama cha walemavu tanzania ( shiviwata ) , elias masamaki , amesema rasimu ya katiba mpya inaonyesha kuwatendea haki walemavu kwa kupendekeza kuwa rais ateue wabunge walemavu kwa kuwa watasaidia kuwakomboa walemavu wenzao .
tabia ya utoro wa mawaziri na wabunge bungeni sasa limegeuka kuwa maisha ya kawaida hata wakati wa kujadili masuala nyeti yenye maslahi kwa taifa .
kuna wakati mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugora aliwahi kuomba bunge liahirishe mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo baada ya kuona idadi ndogo sana ya wabunge na mawaziri bungeni .
kumezuka tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kujigeuza wasemaji wa serikali bungeni kazi ambayo kwa kawaida hufanywa na mawaziri .
kuna baadhi ya wabunge ambao wamesahu kwamba wajibu wao wa msingi ni kuikosoa na kusimamia serikali kuhakikisha inatimiza wajibu wake wa kutimiza ahadi na kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
wiki iliyopita , kikao cha bunge la bajeti katika kujadili hotuba ya waziri wa mambo ya nje na ushirikiano wa kimataifa , bernad membe , lilichafuka .
vurugu zikatokea kati ya wabunge wa vyama vinavyoungwa mkono kwa wingi nchini , chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) .
mbunge wa kondoa kaskazini , zabein mhita ( ccm ) , amedondosha machozi bungeni baada ya kukumbuka jinsi alivyolazimika kupanda kwenye mti ili kupokea simu ya msiba wa mwanae .
mhita ambaye aliwahi kuwa waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia na elimu ya juu , katika serikali ya awamu ya tatu iliyoongozwa rais mstaafu benjamin mkapa , alimwaga machozi jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya mawasiliano , sayansi na teknolojia kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
waziri mkuu mstaafu , edward lowassa , amewataka watanzania kujenga utamaduni wa kuchangia masuala ya maendeleo katika maeneo walikotoka na sio kusubiri kurudishwa katika masanduku wakiwa marehemu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , ameshiriki ibada ya maombi maalum kwa ajili ya kumuombea hayati baba wa taifa , mwalimu julisu nyerere .
maombi hayo yalifanyika katika mji wa namgongo nchini uganda yakiwa na lengo la kumtangaza mwalimu nyerere kuwa mwenye heri na hatimaye mtakatifu kulingana na na imani ya dhehebu la kikatoliki .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , amesema baadhi ya watumishi wa halmashauri wana uwezo wa kuwaweka mfukoni wakaguzi wa mahesabu na kupewa hati safi na kuficha mapungufu .
wakati tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba ikizindua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania jijini dar es salaam leo , wananchi wengi wanashauku kubwa kujua kama itajibu masuala nyeti kama mfumo wa muungano , rasilimali , madaraka ya rais na mengine mengi .
wakati watanzania wakilalamikia mwenendo usioridhisha wa uendeshaji wa vikao vya bunge , naibu spika , job ndugai , ameibuka na kusema kuanzia sasa mbunge kutoka chama cha upinzani akifanya kitendo chochote cha utovu wa nidhamu bungeni hatachukuliwa hatua za kinidhamu .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , vimeliangukia bunge na kuomba msahama kwa ’ machafuko ’ waliyoyasabisha jana bungeni mjini dodoma .
dalili za kukwama kwa bajeti ya wizara ya maendeleo ya mifugo , zimeonekana jana , baada ya wabunge kuitaka serikali kuongeza shilingi bilioni 40 katika bajeti ya wizara hiyo kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
hotuba ya kambi rasmi ya upinzani kuhusu bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya nje na ushrikiano wa kimataifa jana ilisababisha mtafaruku mkubwa bungeni na siku nzima bunge likakwama kufanya shughuli zake .
wabunge wameitaka serikali kuangalia upya misamaha ya kodi nchini ili kuokoa mabilioni ya fedha yanayopotea kila mwaka kutokana na misamaha hiyo .
walitoa rai hiyo jana katika mdahalo ulioandaliwa na asasi za kiraia nchini ( azaki ) , ikiwa ni sehemu ya shughuli zinazofanyika katika maonyesho ya asasi hizo yanayoendelea katika viwanja vya bunge mjini hapa .
mbunge wa jimbo la ludewa ccm ) , deo filikunjombe , amejikuta akibebwa juu juu na wananchi wake baada ya kuwasili katika kijiji cha lupingu , kilichopo katika tarafa ya mwambao wa ziwa nyasa , wilayani humo .
nchi za afrika zimetakiwa kuridhia na kusaini mkataba wa kupinga matumizi yasiyo sahihi ya silaha ambazo hazina alama yoyote ili kupunguza uhalifu katika nchi hizo .
hayo yalielezwa jijini dar es salaam na mbunge wa korogwe mjini ( ccm ) , yusuph abdallah nassir , wakati akifungua mkutano wa mtandao wabunge wanaopigania demokrasia , amani , utawala wa sheria , na haki za binadamu duniani .
upelelezi wa kesi ya kuchochea kutenda kosa na kusababisha uvunjifu wa amani katika chuo cha uhasibu njiro inayomkabili mbunge wa arusha mjini godbless lema umekamilika .
naibu waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia , january makamba , anatuhumiwa kushiriki kuchochea wananchi ili wafanye uasi na kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwahamasisha kuvamia kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde ambao wamefanya uharibifu mkubwa wilayani lushoto .
mjumbe wa kamati teule ya bunge iliyoundwa na spika anne makinda , wiki iliyopita kwa ajili ya kuchunguza kiini cha mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , ramo makani , ’ amewatuliza ’ wanafunzi wa vyuo vya elimu ya juu wanaotoka mikoa ya kusini , akiwataka kukaa pembeni na kuiachia kamati hiyo kutafuta ukweli wa madai ya wakazi wa mkoa wa mtwara .
wabunge wameijia juu serikali wakitaka wawekezaji na vigogo waliojilimbikizia ardhi kubwa bila kuiendeleza wafutiwe umiliki ili igawiwe kwa wananchi wasio na ardhi .
walitoa ushauri huo jana wakati wakichangia makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina leo anatarajia kuwasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi kwa spika , juu ya matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali kuwa makubwa kuliko mapato ya ndani na hivyo kusababisha deni la taifa kuongezeka .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi aliunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara , uamuzi huo wa spika , umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika ambaye amezungumza na mwandishi wetu kuhusu mambo aliyodai kuwa spika amekiuka kanuni za bunge .
bila kumung ’ unya maneno naweza kurudia yaliyowahi kusemwa , yanayosemwa na yanayoendelea kusemwa kuhusu upendeleo wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , dhidi ya wabunge wa ccm .
yamesemwa mengi kuhusu namna anavyoliendesha bunge kishabiki , inavyoonekana hafanyi hivyo kwa matakwa yake bali kwa shinikizo la waliomweka madarakani .
kambi ya rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imeorodhesha mashamba 36 yenye ukubwa wa maelfu ya hekta za ardhi ambayo wananchi waliporwa kimabavu na serikali kwa kutofuata sheria na kisha kupewa wawekezaji .
mbunge wa tabora mjini ( ccm ) , aden rage , ameitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili wa magezeti hadi kufikia sh. milioni 500 badala ya sh .
500,000 ilivyo sasa .
rage alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza , akiitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili hadi kufikia sh .
mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain mohamed murji , amesema wananchi wa mtwara hawazuii gesi asilia kusafirishwa kwenda dar es salaam , bali wanachotaka ni kuwapo kwa mchanganuo wa jinsi watakavyonufaika na mradi huo .
katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , eliakim maswi , amezozana na mbunge wa simanjiro ( ccm ) , christopher ole sendeka , kwa kile kinachoelezwa kuchukizwa na tabia ya mbunge huyo ya kuipiga ’ mawe ’ mazito hoja za wizara hiyo .
mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema , amelishutumu jeshi la polisi mkoani arusha kwamba limekwa kipeperushi cha mkuu wa mkoa wa huo , magesa mulongo , kutokana na kutumika katika kumsafisha katika sakata la kutumiwa ujumbe wa vitisho katika simu yake ya mkononi .
uamuzi wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi kuunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika .
mnyika anasema bunge lilipaswa kuunda kamati teule badala yake spika ameunda kamati yake maalum ambayo haitazingatia kwa ukamilifu matakwa ya sheria ya kinga , haki na madaraka ya bunge katika kuwahoji mashahidi na kuitisha ushahidi .
baraza la habari la tanzania ( mct ) , limemshukia mbunge kondoa kusini ( ccm ) , juma nkamia , kwa hatua yake ya kulipuuza baraza hilo wakati alishawahi kunufaika nalo kwa kupelekwa india yeye na wadau wengine wa habari kujifunza sheria na haki za kupata habari ziara iliyogharimu sh .
wabunge jana walijadili rasimu ya sera ya elimu huku wakitofautiana kuhusiana na suala la watoto wenye umri wa miaka mitatu kuanza shule ya awali kutokana na mazingira ya vijijini kutofautiana na yale ya mijini .
mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya nishati na madini kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 umesitishwa na kuondolewa bungeni ili kuepuka kuchochea vurugu za mtwara .
bajeti hiyo ambayo ilianza kujadiliwa juzi na kupangiwa kumalizika jana , sasa itajadiliwa katika tarehe itakayopangwa kutokana na kuhofia michango ya wabunge kuwa inaweza kuchochea vurugu za gesi mkoani mtwara .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua upya sakata la aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , david jairo na richmond , huku ikilishutumu bunge kwamba , limeshindwa kusimamia utekelezwaji wa maazimio yake .
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo while the arguments in the current case aren ’ t new , moak says that the case — which is actually the combination of six separate lawsuits — represents a broader coalition of plaintiffs than in the past .
“ one way to make education cost less is to lower the goals of education , ” he says .
politicspasee realtime coveragebreaking : rep. gerlach will not seek reelectionpoliticspa- & lrm ; 36 minutes ago & lrm ; “ nearing the end of my sixth term in the house and following 12 years of public service in the pennsylvania house and senate , it is simply time for me to move on to new challenges and to spend more time with my wife and family , ” gerlach said.related jim gerlach rep. jim gerlach ( r-pa . ) won 't seek reelectionwashington post ( blog ) - by aaron blakejim gerlach , gop congressman , will not seek reelectionhuffington post - by mollie reillysee all 7 sourcesrelated jim gerlach a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed ; identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit us to locate the material ; a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent or the law ; and a statement that the information in the notification is accurate , and under penalty of perjury , that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed .
if you are seeking permission to use our content , do not contact us at this address .
instead , please see our reprint and reuse policy or visit www.djreprints.com.
the title of this column , & # 8220 ; confessions of a tightrope walker , & # 8221 ; is an homage to the attention to minutiae required of us all – not just while in school , but as an ongoing philosophy of life .
as westernized styles of living are funneled through the pipeline , don ’ t just be a hungry mouth on the other end . plug the hole , look up the pipe , and take a good look at the other end . if you can ’ t see the whites of their eyes , can ’ t determine the human qualities that motivate the delivery of the fodder to which we are exposed , perhaps it is time to begin shortening the pipe . or reversing it .
apologetics " always be prepared to make a defense to any one who calls you to account for the hope that is in you , yet do it with gentleness and reverence ; and keep your conscience clear , so that , when you are abused , those who revile your good behavior in christ may be put to shame . " ( 1 peter 3 : 15-16 ) his right ear cut off and his penis and testicles shoved into a gourd .
he was later moved to the central prison but the damage has their crime was to be members of msd , the movement for the house of a frodebu leader killing his 7-year-old son and leaving him gravely later , in the far east of the country , in the small town of the result was the death of four and the hospitalisation of member of a political party that is not the one that is in power is a crime and the third option is to return to the violence and permanent this is not a choice that the opposition , or any citizen turned a blind eye to all these manoeuvrings and abuses of human rights and of the party in power to stop arresting , torturing and assassinating the political boys ' club and no one was going to rock the boat in this period of multiple and the results of the elections known before the populace even goes to the polls .
the eac has chosen to support the perpetrators of abuse and not the we realise that if democracy is to be saved , it is for us and courageous in burundi .
we cannot return to the dictatorships that have to be an example to the region .
we need to show how political pluralism can what is the value of the east african community if its if we are serious about democracy in africa we need to stop the naiveté of the foreign ministers in the region was is he said , " the eac will insist on the democratisation of all member states to we need to hold our leaders accountable so that all can will pay it for them .
nor will they obtain it on credit . "
este sitio o aplicación es propiedad o está administrado por clear channel communications , inc .
( " clear channel " ) y es parte de la familia de empresas de clear channel , que incluye otras marcas de entretenimiento de calidad tales como la radiodifusión y estaciones de radio por internet , clear channel outdoor , clear channel radio , y las redes de radio premiere , cada una de las cuales opera o administra uno o más sitios web o aplicaciones ( cada uno , un " sitio de clear channel , " y colectivamente " sitios de clear channel " ) .
clear channel ofrece este sitio de clear channel y servicios relacionados para su uso personal solamente y no comercial y usted está sujeto al cumplimiento de este acuerdo de términos de uso ( el " acuerdo " ) .
por favor , lea este acuerdo cuidadosamente antes de usar estos sitios de clear channel .
el uso de estos sitios de clear channel constituye su aceptación a estar obligado a cumplir con el presente acuerdo , sin limitación , restricción o cambio .
si en algún momento usted no acepta todos los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo , usted debe suspender inmediatamente el uso de este sitio de clear channel .
este acuerdo establece las políticas de clear channel con respecto a sus operaciones de los sitios de clear channel .
otras políticas rigen las operaciones no relacionadas con internet de clear channel .
ciertos productos o servicios ofrecidos por éste y / u otros sitios de clear channel ( cada uno , un " servicio de internet de clear channel , " y colectivamente " servicios de internet de clear channel " ) , y ciertas áreas dentro de éste y / u otros sitios de clear channel pueden regirse por términos adicionales ( " términos adicionales " ) presentados junto con esos productos o servicios .
usted debe aceptar los términos adicionales antes de usar esas áreas o servicios de internet de clear channel .
los términos adicionales y este acuerdo , en conjunto , se aplicarán al uso de esas áreas o servicios de internet de clear channel .
en caso de una contradicción irreconciliable entre los términos adicionales y este acuerdo , los términos adicionales prevalecerán .
usted no puede usar cualquier sitio de clear channel para cualquier propósito que sea ilegal o prohibido por este acuerdo y / o cualquier otro término adicional aplicable .
el acceso a cualquier sitio de clear channel puede ser terminado inmediatamente a la sola y absoluta discreción de clear channel , con o sin previo aviso , si usted no cumple con las disposiciones de este acuerdo y / o cualquier término adicional aplicable , o por cualquier otra razón , o sin razón .
al usar este sitio de clear channel , usted declara y garantiza que : ( a ) usted es un residente legal de los estados unidos , ( b ) que está en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal en su jurisdicción de residencia , ( c ) usted posee o tiene la suficiente autorización para usar la computadora , aparatos móviles , tecnología o cualquier otro aparato que utilice para acceder a este sitio de clear channel ( colectivamente , " aparato " ) , y ( d ) usted tendrá acceso y uso de este sitio de clear channel , de acuerdo con este acuerdo .
algunas partes de este sitio de clear channel pueden tener contenido para adultos destinadas a las personas que están en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal en su jurisdicción de residencia .
al ver este contenido para adultos , usted asegura que se encuentra en o por encima de la mayoría de edad legal y que el contenido es aceptable para usted .
el software de filtración está disponible comercialmente el cual puede usarse para excluir contenido que no es aceptable para usted .
este software puede impedir la visualización de todo o parte del contenido del sitio de clear channel .
si fuera permitido o disponible a través de la aplicación del servicio de internet de clear channel , ( a ) subir contenido en este sitio de clear channel a través de su teléfono y / o tableta móvil , ( b ) recibir y responder mensajes , o acceder o hacer uso de mensajes de mensajes de texto , ( c ) navegar por este sitio de clear channel desde su teléfono móvil y / o ( d ) acceder a ciertas funciones a través de una aplicación móvil que ha descargado e instalado en su teléfono móvil ( colectivamente " servicios móviles " ) , usted debe tener una suscripción de comunicaciones de teléfonos móviles ( o contar con el consentimiento del suscriptor aplicable ) con una compañía participante o de otra manera tener acceso a una red de comunicaciones móviles por lo que clear channel hace disponible el servicio de internet de clear channel , así como cualquier compañía de servicio necesario para descargar contenido , y pagar las cuotas de servicios asociadas con dicho acceso ( incluyendo los gastos de mensajería de texto para cada mensaje de texto que envía y recibe en su teléfono móvil ) .
además , usted debe proporcionar todos los equipos y software necesarios para conectarse al servicio de internet de clear channel , incluyendo pero no limitado a , si este sitio de clear channel contiene un elemento móvil , un auricular móvil u otro aparato de acceso móvil que está en funcionamiento y adecuado para su uso en relación con el servicio de internet de clear channel y usar cualquier parte de ese servicio .
usted es responsable de garantizar que su equipo y / o software no perturbe o interfiera con clear channel o las operaciones de este sitio de clear channel o el servicio de internet de clear channel .
cualquier equipo o software que cause interferencias se desconectará inmediatamente del servicio de internet de clear channel y clear channel tendrá derecho a rescindir inmediatamente el presente acuerdo .
si alguna actualización o servicio de internet de clear channel requiere cambios en su equipo o software ( incluyendo el sistema operativo para su aparato ) , debe efectuar estos cambios por su propia cuenta .
a menos que se indique expresamente de otra manera , todas las características nuevas o adicionales que aumenten o mejoren el servicio actual de internet de clear channel , incluyendo el lanzamiento de nuevos productos y servicios , estarán sujetas a los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo .
usted se compromete a seguir y cumplir con las leyes aplicables en su uso del servicio de internet de clear channel .
clear channel se reserva el derecho , a su sola y absoluta discreción , de modificar , alterar o cambiar este acuerdo y / o los términos adicionales en cualquier momento .
clear channel ofrecerá un aviso del cambio en este sitio de clear channel .
por favor revise este acuerdo y / o términos adicionales periódicamente para los cambios .
el uso continuado de este sitio de clear channel y / o el servicio de internet de clear channel constituye su aceptación y acuerdo para cumplir con estos cambios , sin limitación , restricción o cambio .
si en algún momento usted no acepta estos cambios , debe suspender inmediatamente el uso de este sitio de clear channel y / o el servicio de internet de clear channel para que puedan aplicar los cambios .
clear channel ha desarrollado una política de privacidad para informarle acerca de sus prácticas con respecto a la recopilación , uso , divulgación y protección de información personal .
usted puede encontrar la política de privacidad , que está incorporada a este acuerdo , haciendo clic aquí , y mediante el uso de este sitio de clear channel está de acuerdo con los términos de la política de privacidad .
si en particular un sitio de clear channel o del servicio de internet de clear channel requiere que abra una cuenta , debe completar el proceso de inscripción especificado facilitándonos la información actualizada , completa y precisa conforme a lo solicitado por el formulario de inscripción en línea correspondiente .
es su responsabilidad mantener la actualización , integridad y exactitud de sus datos de inscripción y cualquier pérdida causada por el hecho de no hacerlo es su responsabilidad .
después de haber completado el formulario de inscripción , se le puede pedir que elija una contraseña y un nombre de usuario .
es enteramente su responsable mantener la confidencialidad de su contraseña y cuenta .
además , usted es completamente responsable de cualquier y toda actividad que ocurra en cuenta .
usted se compromete a notificar a clear channel inmediatamente de cualquier uso no autorizado de su cuenta .
clear channel no se hace responsable de cualquier pérdida que usted pueda incurrir como resultado de que otra persona utilice su contraseña o cuenta , ya sea con o sin su conocimiento .
usted puede cancelar su cuenta notificándolo en la manera prevista en los términos adicionales que rigen el particular servicio de internet de clear channel .
en el acceso y uso de este sitio de clear channel y / o los servicios de internet de clear channel , usted acepta que no podrá : enviar ninguna publicidad no solicitada , materiales promocionales , correos basura , correos electrónicos masivos ( también conocidos como " spam " ) cartas en cadena , encuestas o concursos , o solicitar la participación de los esquemas de pirámide ( a menos que sea en una página que afirme explícitamente que esos mensajes están permitidos en esa página ) .
enviar cualquier publicidad ilegal ( de acuerdo con las leyes o reglamentos locales , estatales , federales o internacionales ) a o a través de este sitio de clear channel , o cualquier publicidad que abogue la actividad ilegal .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces a cualquier publicación que contenga material que pueda considerarse perjudicial , obsceno , pornográfico , indecente , lascivo , violento , abusivo , profano , amenazador , insultante , acosador , odioso o de otra manera censurable .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces a cualquier publicación que contenga material que acose , discrimine , degrade o intimide a una persona o grupo de individuos sobre la base de la religión , raza , etnicidad , orientación sexual , sexo , edad o discapacidad .
enviar o proporcionar enlaces , cualquier publicación que contenga material difamatorio , falso o calumnioso .
enviar cualquier publicación que infrinja o viole cualquier propiedad intelectual u otro derecho de cualquier entidad o persona , incluyendo , sin limitación , derechos de autor , patentes , marcas registradas , las leyes que rigen los secretos comerciales , derechos de privacidad o de publicidad .
enviar cualquier publicidad que usted no tenga derecho a poner disponible según la ley o las relaciones contractuales o fiduciarias .
hacerse pasar por otra persona o entidad o declarar falsamente o de otra manera tergiversar su afiliación con una persona o entidad , o adoptar una identidad falsa si el propósito de hacerlo así es para confundir , engañar , o defraudar a otra persona .
manipular los identificadores , incluyendo la falsificación de encabezados , con el fin de ocultar el origen de cualquier publicidad que usted envíe .
enviar cualquier publicación que contenga información personal , como números de teléfono , números de seguro social , números de cuenta , direcciones o referencias del empleador .
usar el servicio de clear channel de cualquier manera que pudiera dañar , deshabilitar , sobrecargar o deteriorar o interferir con el uso de este sitio de clear channel o aparatos de otros usuarios , o causar daños , interrupción o limitar el funcionamiento de cualquier software , hardware o equipo de telecomunicaciones .
intentar obtener acceso no autorizado a este sitio de clear channel , cualquier sitio web relacionado , a otras cuentas , sistemas de computación o redes conectadas a este sitio de clear channel , a través de piratería , descifre de contraseñas , o de cualquier otra manera .
obtener o intentar obtener cualquier material o información mediante cualquier manera que no sea intencionalmente disponible a través de este sitio de clear channel , incluyendo la recaudación o mediante la recolección de información acerca de otras personas , tales como direcciones de correo electrónico .
excepto cuando se proporcione de otra manera , el acceso a y uso de este sitio de clear channel y los servicios de internet de clear channel ofrecidos a través de la misma están actualmente disponibles sin costo alguno .
clear channel se reserva el derecho de cobrar una cuota por el acceso a o el uso de este sitio de clear channel , o de cualquier servicio de internet de clear channel disponible en este sitio de clear channel en cualquier momento más adelante .
su acceso a o uso de este sitio de clear channel antes de ese momento no le da derecho al uso de este sitio de clear channel sin cargo más adelante .
su uso , y la dependencia de cualquier consejo o información obtenida desde o a través de este sitio de clear channel y / o de servicio interactivo de clear channel es bajo su propio riesgo .
todo el contenido , incluyendo el software , productos , servicios , información , textos y gráficos afines contenidos en este sitio o que están disponibles a través de este sitio de clear channel o de servicio interactivo de clear channel se proporcionan " tal como son " , " según la disponibilidad " .
clear channel no hace representaciones ni garantías de ningún tipo , ni expresa ni implícitamente , en cuanto al funcionamiento de este sitio de clear channel o a la información , contenido o materiales incluidos en este sitio de clear channel .
hasta donde la ley correspondiente lo permita , clear channel se exime de todas las representaciones y garantías de cualquier tipo , ya sea expresa o implícita , incluyendo pero sin limitarse a , las garantías implícitas de comercialización o de calidad satisfactoria , idoneidad para un propósito específico , competencia profesional , el contenido informativo , el título o no violación de los derechos de terceros .
clear channel no garantiza ni hace ninguna representación que este sitio de clear channel funcionará libre de errores o sin interrupciones , que los defectos serán corregidos , o que este sitio de clear channel y / o sus servidores estarán libres de virus y / o de otros componentes dañinos .
clear channel no garantiza ni hace ninguna representación con respecto a la idoneidad , disponibilidad , exactitud , fiabilidad , integridad , o puntualidad de cualquier material de cualquier clase incluido en este sitio de clear channel para cualquier propósito , incluyendo software , productos , servicios , información , textos y gráficos afines de contenido .
clear channel no se hace responsable de los fallos causados por errores de servidor , transmisiones mal dirigidas o redirigidas , errores en las conexiones a internet , interrupciones en la transmisión o recepción de órdenes de venta de boletos o servicios interactivos de clear channel , o cualquier virus informático u otro fallo técnico , ya sea humano o de carácter técnico .
algunas jurisdicciones no permiten la renuncia , exención o limitación de ciertas garantías , responsabilidades y daños , por lo que algunas de estas renuncias , exclusiones y limitaciones pueden no aplicarse a usted .
en dichas jurisdicciones , la responsabilidad de clear channel se limita hasta donde la ley correspondiente lo permita .
en ningún caso clear channel , sus subsidiarias , afiliados , distribuidores , proveedores , concesionarios , agentes u otras personas involucradas en la creación , patrocinio , promoción o difusión pública de este sitio de clear channel y su contenido , serán responsables ante ninguna persona o entidad por daños directos , indirectos , incidentales , especiales , daños compensatorios , consecuentes , o punitivos o daños de ningún tipo , incluyendo pero no limitado a : ( i ) la pérdida de prestigio , beneficios , interrupción de negocios , datos u otras pérdidas intangibles ; ( ii ) su incapacidad de uso , el uso no autorizado , el rendimiento o incumplimiento de este sitio de clear channel ; ( iii ) el acceso no autorizado o la alteración de su información personal o las transmisiones ; ( iv ) la prestación o falta de prestación de cualquier servicio ; ( v ) errores o inexactitudes contenidas en este sitio de clear channel o cualquier información , software , productos , servicios y gráficos afines obtenidos a través de este sitio de clear channel ; ( vi ) cualquier otra transacción realizada a través de este sitio de clear channel ; ( vii ) cualquier daño a la propiedad incluyendo el daño a su aparato o sistema de computación causado por virus u otros componentes dañinos , durante o por el acceso a la cuenta o el uso de este sitio de clear channel o cualquier otro sitio al que se suministran enlaces ; o ( viii ) los daños que se deriven de la utilización de este sitio de clear channel y servicios de internet de clear channel .
las limitaciones de responsabilidad se aplicarán independientemente de la forma de acción , ya sea basado en contrato , agravio , negligencia , responsabilidad estricta o de otra manera , incluso si clear channel ha sido advertida de la posibilidad de daños y perjuicios .
usted acepta indemnizar y mantener indemne a clear channel , sus subsidiarias , agentes , distribuidores y afiliados , y sus funcionarios , directores y empleados de y contra cualquier y todo reclamo , acciones , demandas , responsabilidades , costos y gastos , incluyendo , sin limitación , los honorarios razonables de abogados , resultantes de su incumplimiento de cualquier disposición de este acuerdo , los términos adicionales , o cualquier otra garantía que usted proporcione en este documento , o que surja de cualquier manera del uso de este sitio de clear channel y cualquier uso relacionado con el servicio de internet de clear channel y / o software .
usted se compromete a cooperar plenamente con clear channel para hacer valer cualquier defensa disponible en relación con una reclamación sujeta a indemnización por usted bajo este acuerdo .
clear channel se reserva el derecho , a su sola y absoluta discreción , modificar , suspender o terminar este sitio de clear channel y / o cualquier porción del mismo , incluyendo cualquier servicio de internet de clear channel y / o su cuenta , contraseña , o el uso de servicio de internet de clear channel , o cualquier parte del mismo , en cualquier momento y por cualquier razón con o sin previo aviso .
la terminación de su cuenta de servicio de internet de clear channel retira su autorización para utilizar el servicio de internet de clear channel .
en caso de terminación , usted todavía deberá cumplir con sus obligaciones por medio del presente acuerdo y los términos adicionales , incluyendo las garantías hechas por usted , y por las renuncias y limitaciones de responsabilidad .
además , clear channel no será responsable ante usted ni ante terceros por alguna terminación de su acceso a un servicio de internet de clear channel .
este sitio de clear channel puede contener enlaces a sitios web , aplicaciones u otros servicios operados por terceros ( los " sitios enlazados " ) .
clear channel no supervisa ni controla los sitios enlazados y no hace ninguna representación relativa , y no es responsable por la exactitud , integridad , puntualidad , confiabilidad o disponibilidad de cualquiera de los contenidos cargados , mostrados , ni distribuidos , ni de los productos o servicios disponibles en los sitios enlazados .
si usted decide acceder a cualquier sitio de terceros ( incluyendo cualquier sitio enlazado ) , usted lo hará bajo su propio riesgo , y el uso de ese sitio estará sujeto a sus propios términos de uso y política de privacidad , que deberá revisar .
la presencia de un enlace a un sitio de terceros no constituye o implica la aprobación , el patrocinio o la recomendación de clear channel a terceros o a los contenidos , productos o servicios contenidos o disponibles a través del sitio .
cualquier software que se pone a disposición para acceso , uso , ver y / o descargar en relación con un sitio de clear channel o el servicio de internet de clear channel ( " software " ) , incluyendo aplicaciones , podcasts , streaming de audio o streaming de video , es propiedad o está controlado por clear channel y / o licenciantes , afiliados y proveedores y está protegido por leyes de derechos de autor y por tratados internacionales .
el uso del software se limita al uso privado , no comercial y se rige por los términos del acuerdo de licencia del usuario final , si los hubiere , que acompaña o se incluye con el software .
clear channel no asume responsabilidad alguna en relación con cualquier software de su propiedad o por los que estén controlados por terceros .
el acceso a los materiales en este sitio de clear channel por ciertas personas en ciertos países puede ser ilegal , y clear channel no garantiza que los materiales de este sitio de clear channel sean apropiados o disponibles para su uso en lugares fuera de los estados unidos .
si decide acceder a este sitio de clear channel desde fuera de estados unidos , lo hace bajo su propio riesgo e iniciativa , y usted es responsable de cumplir con las leyes locales correspondientes .
los estados unidos controla la exportación de cualquier software descargable desde este sitio de clear channel .
sin la necesidad de software o cualquier otro material asociado a este sitio de clear channel se puede descargar , exportar o reexportar a países o personas prohibidas por las leyes de control de exportación , incluyendo pero no limitado a los países contra los que estados unidos haya embargado bienes , o a cualquier persona en la lista de nacionales especialmente designados y personas bloqueadas del departamento del tesoro de los estados unidos , o de la lista de negación de órdenes del departamento de comercio de los ee.uu. usted es responsable de cumplir con las leyes de su jurisdicción local con respecto a la importación , exportación o reexportación de dichos materiales .
al utilizar y / o descargar cualquier material de parte de un sitio de clear channel , usted declara y garantiza que no se encuentra bajo el control de algún ciudadano o residente de tal país en el cual este tipo de importación , exportación o reexportación está prohibido o no es una persona o entidad a la que esta exportación está prohibida .
este sitio de clear channel puede permitirle ordenar y recibir los productos , información y servicios de las empresas que no son propiedad o que no están operadas por clear channel .
la compra , pago , garantía , avalúo , entrega , mantenimiento , y todos los demás asuntos relativos a la mercancía , servicio o información , opinión o consejo pedido o recibido de estas empresas son exclusivamente entre usted y estas empresas .
clear channel no aprueba , avalúa o garantiza estos productos , información o servicios , y no es responsable de la exactitud , integridad o uso de dicha información o la calidad de la disponibilidad de dichos productos o servicios .
clear channel no será parte o de ninguna manera responsable de supervisar cualquier transacción entre usted y terceros proveedores de tales productos , servicios o información , o para asegurar la confidencialidad de su información de tarjeta de crédito .
los distintos cargos u obligaciones que usted incurra en su relación con estos terceros son de su responsabilidad y no son parte de la cuota , en su caso , que se cobra por el servicio de internet de clear channel .
clear channel puede exhibir anuncios publicitarios para los bienes y servicios de terceros en los sitios de clear channel , incluso en relación con copromociones , patrocinios y otros acuerdos de colaboración similares .
clear channel no aprueba ni representa y no es responsable de la seguridad , calidad , exactitud , confiabilidad , integridad o legalidad de tales bienes o servicios anunciados , promovidos o exhibidos en este sitio de clear channel .
usted puede ser invitado o se le puede pedir que acuda a eventos patrocinados por clear channel o eventos realizados por otros miembros y usuarios de este sitio de clear channel , que no están de ninguna manera asociados con clear channel en diversos lugares de todo estados unidos ( colectivamente , " eventos " ) .
su participación en estos eventos es bajo su propio riesgo y usted acepta liberar y eximir a clear channel , sus subsidiarias , agentes , distribuidores y afiliados , y a sus funcionarios , directores y empleados de y contra cualquiera y todas las reclamaciones , acciones , demandas , responsabilidades , costos y gastos , incluyendo , sin limitación , cualquier lesión o muerte a usted o a sus hijos menores o tutelados , como resultado de asistir a los eventos o por la participación en las actividades disponibles en los eventos .
también está de acuerdo en que es posible que podamos filmar y grabar cualquiera de los eventos patrocinados por clear channel en el que usted o sus hijos menores o tutelados participen y usted acepta que tales videos y grabaciones serán propiedad de clear channel y que podemos utilizar su nombre o el nombre de sus hijos menores o tutelados , semejanza , voz , actuación y otras actividades en las que usted o sus hijos menores o tutelados participen para fines publicitarios , promocionales y de otro propósito legal en cualquier y todos los medios ahora o más adelante conocidos en todo el mundo en perpetuidad sin previo aviso , aprobación o compensación alguna para usted o terceros .
este sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer ciertos servicios de internet de clear channel con componentes interactivos tales como tableros de anuncios , salas de chats , blogs y foros ( colectivamente , " servicios interactivos de clear channel " ) .
los términos adicionales pueden cubrir los servicios de internet de clear channel , que aparecen en las páginas donde estos servicios están disponibles , además de los términos generales que aparecen a continuación .
la selección de los servicios disponibles de internet de clear channel puede cambiar de vez en cuando a la sola y absoluta discreción de clear channel .
usted puede participar en el servicio interactivo de clear channel completando el formulario de inscripción , cuando éste se proporcione .
clear channel no controla y no es responsable de ninguna de las notas , mensajes , tablero de mensajes , ideas , sugerencias , conceptos u otro material , o archivos entregados a un sitio de clear channel por usted u otros usuarios ( colectivamente , " materiales del usuario " ) .
clear channel no está obligado y regularmente no revisa , preselecciona , controla , elimina o modifica los materiales del usuario .
sin embargo , clear channel se reserva el derecho de hacerlo en cualquier momento y a su sola y absoluta discreción , por cualquier razón o sin razón , y de rechazar , eliminar , mover o editar cualquier material de usuario , en todo o en parte , con o sin previo aviso .
clear channel no se hace responsable por daños y perjuicios de ningún tipo derivados de cualquier material del usuario , incluso cuando clear channel es advertido de la posibilidad de tales daños , o de la alteración o eliminación de clear channel de los materiales del usuario usted es el único responsable de todos los materiales del usuario entregados a este sitio de clear channel utilizando su cuenta .
cualquier violación de estas disposiciones puede someter su cuenta de clear channel a la terminación inmediata y , posiblemente , a más acciones legales .
usted manifiesta y garantiza que posee o controla todos los derechos y los materiales del usuario y que la publicación y el uso de los materiales del usuario por clear channel no infringirán ni violarán los derechos de terceros en ninguna manera .
al enviar , transmitir , publicar , cargar , modificar o de otra manera proporcionar cualquier material del usuario en relación con este sitio de clear channel y / o un servicio interactivo de clear channel , ya sea solicitado o no solicitado , usted está otorgando permiso a clear channel y a sus representantes libre de regalías , totalmente pagadas , no exclusivas , irrevocables , perpetuo , licencia sin restricciones a nivel mundial para reproducir , publicar , transmitir , reproducir , publicar , sublicenciar , crear trabajos derivados y usar material del usuario para cualquier propósito , incluyendo , sin limitación , con fines publicitarios y promocionales , solos o como parte de otros trabajos en cualquier manera , medios de comunicación o tecnología conocida ahora o más adelante .
sin crédito , aprobación o compensación que se le deba a usted por ese uso de los materiales del usuario que usted puede presentar .
clear channel también tiene el derecho , pero no la obligación , de usar su nombre de usuario ( y el nombre verdadero , imagen , semejanza u otra información de identificación , si se proporciona en relación con los materiales del usuario ) , ciudad y estado en relación con la transmisión , impresión , internet u otro uso o publicación del material del usuario .
tenga en cuenta que cualquier material del usuario que envíe es y será tratado como no confidencial y no propietario en lo referente a usted , a menos que expresamente se especifique de otra manera en nuestra política de privacidad .
la información y opiniones expresadas en los materiales del usuario que aparecen en este sitio de clear channel no son necesariamente las de clear channel o sus proveedores de contenido , anunciantes , patrocinadores , afiliados o entidades relacionadas , y clear channel no hace representaciones o garantías con respecto a esa información o a esas opiniones , y expresamente renuncia a cualquier responsabilidad por los materiales del usuario .
clear channel no representa ni garantiza la veracidad , exactitud o confiabilidad de cualquier material del usuario ni determina si los materiales del usuario violan los derechos de los demás , y clear channel no tiene ningún control sobre si dichos materiales del usuario son de tipo que usted u otros usuarios pueden encontrar ofensivos , desagradables o inaceptables .
usted reconoce que cualquier incumplimiento en cualquier material del usuario enviado por otros usuarios , será bajo su propio riesgo , incluyendo el cumplimiento en la exactitud , integridad o utilidad de los materiales del usuario .
usted reconoce que este sitio de clear channel es " público " , y además de la licencia concedida a clear channel , otros usuarios tendrán acceso a sus materiales del usuario y pueden copiarlos , modificarlos o distribuirlos .
si usted tiene conocimiento de cualquier material del usuario de este sitio de clear channel , que viole estos términos , por favor comuníquese con nosotros en support @ iheartradio.com.
por favor , proporcione todos los detalles posibles , incluyendo una copia del material subyacente , el lugar donde clear channel pueda encontrarlo , y la razón por la cual dicho material del usuario debe ser eliminado .
tenga en cuenta que la presentación de una queja no garantiza su eliminación , clear channel sólo eliminará los materiales del usuario si clear channel considera que es necesario , a nuestra sola y absoluta discreción .
en la medida que cualquier notificación se basa en una supuesta violación de derechos de autor , por favor , siga las instrucciones establecidas en la sección titulada " violación a los derechos de autor " .
excepto a los que específicamente solicitamos , no aceptamos o consideramos materiales creativos no solicitados , ideas o sugerencias ya sea a través de este sitio de clear channel , correo electrónico u otros medios .
esto es para evitar cualquier malentendido si sus ideas son similares a las que hemos desarrollado u obtenido de manera independiente .
sin embargo , si usted todavía nos transmite , a través de este sitio de clear channel , por correo electrónico o de otra manera , cualquier comunicación o material no solicitado , se le considerará que nos ha concedido los mismos derechos que se establecen en esta sección con respecto a los materiales del usuario .
sin limitación de la misma , usted acepta que clear channel , nuestros afiliados y nuestros concesionarios son libres de usar cualquier idea , concepto , conocimientos o técnicas contenidas en cualquier comunicación que usted nos envíe para cualquier propósito , incluyendo pero no limitado a , desarrollo , fabricación y comercialización de productos , servicios y contenido utilizando dicha información , sin ningún tipo de crédito , previo aviso , aprobación o compensación alguna para usted .
programas de referencia y oportunidades para " enviar a un amigo " el sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer programas de referencia que le permite enviar información acerca de otras personas ( cada uno , una " persona referida " ) , incluyendo , sin limitación , direcciones de correo electrónico con sede en ee.uu. , números de teléfono móvil , los nombres , direcciones y otra información de contacto para que puedan recibir información y / o ofertas promocionales sobre el servicio de internet de clear channel .
sólo puede referir a las personas con quienes tiene una relación personal .
usted debe haber obtenido el consentimiento de la persona referida antes de proporcionarnos la información de contacto .
nos reservamos el derecho de limitar el número de las personas referidas que puede enviar .
nos reservamos el derecho de limitar el número de transmisiones a cualquier persona en particular de vez en cuando .
usted no puede retirar la información de contacto que proporcione de las personas referidas , una vez que se ha presentado .
una persona referida debe ser un residente permanente legal de los estados unidos continentales , por lo menos 18 años de edad ( o 19 años si es un residente de alabama o nebraska , o 21 años si es un residente de mississippi ) , y poder registrarse para el servicio de internet de clear channel , o utilizar el servicio de internet de clear channel .
la información de contacto de una persona referida debe ser válida y estar funcionando para que podamos comunicarnos con él o ella acera del servicio de internet de clear channel .
no nos hacemos responsables de validar la información de contacto que proporcione .
podemos optar por no comunicarnos con la persona referida y / o con la dirección de correo electrónico si él / ella / ello parece estar en cualquiera de nuestras listas de " no contactar " o " no enviar correo electrónico " .
además , nos reservamos el derecho de rechazar la participación de cualquier persona referida , si ( a ) la información de contacto proporcionada por usted es incorrecta o no es válida , ( b ) dicha persona ha violado cualquier disposición de estos términos o condiciones , o ( c ) , según nuestro criterio , que la participación de dicha persona podría ser perjudicial para nosotros , este sitio de clear channel , los servicios de internet de clear channel , o a terceros por cualquier razón .
específicamente , renunciamos a cualquier responsabilidad derivada para que se cumpla tal derecho .
es posible que , a nuestro criterio , le enviemos una confirmación con todos los medios disponibles a través del servicio de internet de clear channel , incluyendo correo electrónico , texto y otros formularios de mensajería , para informarle de que la persona referida se ha registrado en el servicio de internet de clear channel .
si le enviamos la confirmación a usted a través la compañía de servicio con la cual usted tiene una suscripción de comunicación móvil o de otra manera tiene acceso , usted entiende que usted pagará las cuotas por servicios asociados con dicho acceso ( incluyendo los gastos de mensajería de texto en relación con los mensajes a tu aparato móvil ) .
si hace mal uso de cualquier programa de referencia o de otra manera participa en una conducta impropia con respecto a un programa de referencia , como determinemos en nuestro criterio , nos reservamos el derecho a interrumpir su servicio de internet de clear channel .
es posible que de vez en cuando podemos ofrecer incentivos o recompensas en relación con un programa de referencia , y cualquier programa de incentivos o recompensas debe estar sujeto a términos adicionales que serán publicados en el momento en que este tipo de programas estén disponibles y se consideraren incorporados y sujetos al presente acuerdo .
nos reservamos el derecho , según nuestro criterio , de suspender , temporal o permanentemente , o dejar de proporcionar cualquier y todos los programas de referencia sin previo aviso , razón o responsabilidad .
si usted está utilizando el servicio de internet de clear channel para comunicarse con una persona referida ( o terceros ) , se compromete a no utilizar los servicios de internet de clear channel para hacer daño a la persona referida o a terceros , y / o usar a clear channel como servicio de internet en violación de las leyes pertinentes , normas o reglamentos , o los términos y condiciones de este acuerdo .
para alguna de las características de votación y clasificación que están disponibles en este sitio de clear channel , debe seguir las instrucciones en este sitio de clear channel para enviar sus votos / calificaciones , así como las restricciones establecidas con respecto a las limitaciones sobre la votación / clasificación .
los votos / clasificaciones recibidas en exceso de cualquier limitación indicada serán descalificadas .
está prohibido el pago u otras consideraciones a cambio de votos / clasificaciones .
los votos / clasificaciones generadas por escritura , macro u otros medios automatizados o cualquier otro medio con la intención de afectar la integridad del proceso de votación y clasificación según lo determinado por nosotros puede ser nulo .
clear channel no asume ninguna responsabilidad por información incorrecta / inexacta de votación y clasificación o por cualquier error , omisión , interrupción , eliminación , defecto , demora en la operación o transmisión , falla de línea de comunicación , robo o destrucción o acceso no autorizado , o alteración de votos / clasificaciones .
nosotros podemos , a nuestro criterio , modificar , terminar o suspender la votación / clasificación o anular cualquier voto / clasificación si un virus , error , intervención humana no autorizada , la acción de los votantes / evaluador , u otra causa corrupta o que afecte la administración , la seguridad , o la imparcialidad de la votación / clasificación .
nos reservamos el derecho , a nuestra sola y absoluta discreción para descalificar a cualquier persona que se encuentre en una violación de estos términos , manipulación con el proceso de votación / clasificación , o actuando de una manera incorrecta o impropia y de anular todos los votos / clasificaciones asociadas .
nuestras decisiones con respecto a todos los aspectos de cualquier elemento de la votación / clasificación son definitivas y vinculantes , pero no limitado a , con respecto al recuento de votos / clasificaciones y la invalidación o descalificación de cualquier de voto / clasificación o votantes / evaluadores sospechosos .
también se puede dar la oportunidad de participar en las características de votación / clasificación en una aplicación o característica de terceros ( por ejemplo , uno de nuestros socios de los medios de comunicación social como facebook o twitter ) , en cuyo caso su participación en dichas funciones , estará sujeto a los términos y las condiciones que rigen la aplicación o función de terceros .
este sitio de clear channel puede ofrecer ciertos servicios de suscripción de clear channel , tales como boletines de noticias y alimentaciones de sindicación simple verdadera ( " rss " , por sus siglas en inglés ) ( colectivamente , " servicios de suscripción de clear channel " ) .
al registrarse en un servicio de suscripción de clear channel , usted estará sujeto a los cargos y las normas establecidas en la descripción de ese servicio que pueden o no pueden verse reflejadas en los términos adicionales .
algunos servicios de internet de clear channel en este sitio de clear channel , incluyendo algunos servicios interactivos de clear channel y servicios de suscripción , pueden ofrecerse al usuario condicionados por el pago de una cuota ( cada uno , un " servicio premium de clear channel " ) .
al utilizar el servicio premium de clear channel , usted estará sujeto a los cargos y las normas establecidas en los términos adicionales para ese servicio , además de las condiciones generales que aparecen a continuación .
usted puede registrarse completando el formulario de inscripción correspondiente .
usted es responsable de cualquier nombre de usuario y la contraseña que esté asociada con su cuenta durante la inscripción .
si este servicio premium no reconoce el aparato desde una versión anterior de inicio de sesión , se le pedirá la información que nos ayudará a identificar su inscripción .
es su responsabilidad mantener la confidencialidad de su contraseña , si se establece .
usted es el único responsable de cualquier y toda actividad que ocurra en su cuenta y se compromete a notificar inmediatamente cualquier uso no autorizado de su cuenta .
clear channel se le notificará de los cargos , o cargos adicionales , antes de registrarse o entrar en un área premium .
usted es responsable de todos los cargos de contenido premium incurridos por su cuenta .
no nos hacemos responsables de ninguna pérdida en la que usted pueda incurrir como resultado de que otra persona utilice su contraseña o cuenta , ya sea con o sin su conocimiento .
en caso de que usted pague por un servicio premium con tarjeta de crédito , usted nos autoriza a cargar su tarjeta de crédito al registrarse en el servicio y proporcionándonos la información de su tarjeta de crédito .
usted nos garantiza que la información de su tarjeta de crédito que usted nos brinda es correcta y es su cuenta .
cualquier servicio premium es solamente para su uso personal y no comercial .
usted no puede modificar , copiar , distribuir , transmitir , mostrar , realizar , reproducir , publicar , licenciar , crear trabajos derivados , transferir ni vender ninguna información , software , productos obtenidos de este servicio premium sin nuestro consentimiento previo por escrito .
usted puede preguntar cómo obtener nuestro permiso por escrito para mostrar o reproducir el material de este sitio de clear channel escribiendo a : usted puede cancelar su membresía en este servicio premium en cualquier momento poniéndose en contacto con nosotros usando la información de contacto proporcionada en este servicio premium .
en caso de que usted haya pagado una cuota para registrarse en este sitio de clear channel y cancela antes de finalizar su período de suscripción , no devolveremos ninguna parte de su cuota de membresía , siempre que usted tenga derecho a continuar accediendo el sitio de clear channel correspondiente hasta finalizar su período de afiliación .
nos reservamos el derecho de terminar su acceso a este servicio premium o cualquier parte del mismo en cualquier momento y sin previo aviso .
tras dicha terminación , le regresaremos la parte prorrateada no utilizada de su cuota en 52 semanas de manera prorrateada en un plazo de noventa ( 90 ) días siguientes a la terminación de su acceso a este servicio .
usted puede enviar por correo electrónico sus solicitudes de servicio al cliente a través de la información de contacto proporcionada en la página de inicio del servicio premium correspondiente .
cualquier sorteo , concurso , juego y / u oferta promocional accesible en este sitio de clear channel se rige por normas específicas y / o términos y condiciones .
al participar en un sorteo o concurso o participar en tales juegos u ofertas promocionales disponibles en este sitio de clear channel , estará sujeto a las normas y / o términos y condiciones .
es muy importante que lea las normas aplicables y / o los términos y condiciones , que están enlazadas desde la página o actividad en particular .
en la medida de cualquier conflicto entre las normas y / o términos y condiciones y estos términos , las normas y / o términos y condiciones para el concurso , juego u oferta promocional se regirán , pero sólo en la medida del conflicto .
cualquier sorteo , concurso , juego y / u oferta promocional accesible o anunciada en sitios web de terceros accesibles desde este sitio de clear channel ( como los socios de los medios sociales como facebook y twitter ) , además de estar sujetos a las normas específicas y / o términos y condiciones aplicables por su participación en dicha función ( es ) en este sitio de clear channel , también estará sujeto a las normas y / o términos y condiciones aplicables por su participación en dicha función ( es ) en los sitios de terceros .
este acuerdo y los términos adicionales se regirán , interpretarán y aplicarán de conformidad con las leyes del estado de nueva york , tal como se aplica a los contratos celebrados y ejecutados en su totalidad dentro de dicho estado , sin tener en cuenta conflictos de principios legales .
usted acepta que todas las disputas , reclamos y causas de acción que surjan o se relacionen con este acuerdo y / o los términos adicionales , o en relación con cualquier asunto relacionado con este sitio de clear channel y / o la política de privacidad , se resolverán individualmente , sin recurrir a ninguna forma de demanda colectiva , exclusivamente en los tribunales estatales o federales ubicados en el condado de nueva york , nueva york .
usted acepta someterse a la jurisdicción de los tribunales del estado de nueva york por cualquier causa de acción que surja de este acuerdo .
usted se compromete a presentar cualquier causa de acción con respecto a este acuerdo dentro de un año después de la causa de la acción .
usted acepta que una causa de acción presentada después de esta fecha está prohibió .
si alguna disposición de este acuerdo , o su aplicación a cualquier persona o circunstancia , se anulará o por cualquier razón , incluyendo inaplicable , pero no limitado a , las renuncias de garantía y limitaciones de responsabilidad , entonces dicha disposición se considerará sustituida por una válida , aplicable que coincida , en la mayor medida posible , la disposición original , y las demás disposiciones del presente acuerdo permanecerán en pleno vigor y efecto .
el incumplimiento de cualquiera de las partes para insistir en el cumplimiento estricto de cualquier provisión de este acuerdo no se interpretará como renuncia de ningún derecho o disposición .
a menos que se disponga expresamente otra cosa , este acuerdo es el acuerdo completo entre usted y clear channel con respecto al uso de este sitio de clear channel y no será modificado excepto por escrito , firmado por un representante autorizado de clear channel .
si usted tiene alguna pregunta relacionada con este acuerdo , usted puede enviarla por correo electrónico a support @ iheartradio.com.
usted debe enviar toda la correspondencia oficial por correo postal a : el sitio de clear channel , y todo su contenido , incluyendo pero no limitado a los artículos , otros textos , fotografías , imágenes , ilustraciones , gráficos , material de video , material de audio , incluyendo composiciones musicales y grabaciones de sonido , software , logotipos de clear channel , títulos , personajes , nombres , gráficos e iconos de botón ( colectivamente " propiedad intelectual " ) , están protegidos por derechos de autor , marcas registradas y otras leyes de los estados unidos , así como las convenciones internacionales y las leyes de otros países .
la propiedad intelectual es propiedad o está controlada por clear channel o por otras partes que han ofrecido los mismos derechos a clear channel .
usted no puede , y acepta que no , reproducirá , descargará , licenciará , publicará , entrará en una base de datos , mostrará , modificará , creará trabajos derivados , transmitirá , publicará , distribuirá o ejecutará públicamente por ningún medio , método o proceso conocido ahora o desarrollado más tarde , descompilará , realizará ingeniería inversa , desmontará , usará en otro entorno de la informática , transferirá o venderá ninguna propiedad intelectual , información , software o productos obtenidos de este sitio de clear channel , en su totalidad o en parte , sin la previa autorización por escrito de clear channel .
otras marcas registradas , marcas de servicio , nombres de productos y nombres de empresas o logotipos que aparecen en este sitio de clear channel , que no son propiedad de clear channel y no pueden ser utilizados sin la previa autorización de sus dueños .
además , a menos que esté expresamente permitido , los sitios web no pueden enlazar , ya sea a través de hipervínculos o de otra manera , a cualquier otra página más allá de la página de inicio de este sitio de clear channel , o marco de este sitio de clear channel , o cualquier otra página web o material en este documento , ni puede incluir un enlace a ninguna entidad a cualquier aspecto de este sitio de clear channel en un correo electrónico con fines comerciales , sin la autorización expresa por escrito de clear channel .
además , a menos que esté expresamente permitido , usted se compromete a no vincular la propiedad intelectual de clear channel , con el fin de hacer que usted o cualquier otra persona acceda a la propiedad intelectual de clear channel a través de este sitio de clear channel .
usted puede preguntar cómo obtener el permiso por escrito a : clear channel respeta los derechos de propiedad intelectual de terceros , y cumple con los términos de la ley digital millennium copyright ( dmca , por sus siglas en inglés ) en relación con tales derechos .
al enviar cualquier material o fotografías a través de este sitio de clear channel , usted concede permiso para tener este material publicado en este sitio de clear channel , y representa que usted es el propietario legítimo de los materiales presentados , y que nadie más puede reclamar derechos de este material .
clear channel se reserva el derecho de eliminar el acceso a material infractor .
estas acciones no afectan ni modifican cualquier otro derecho que clear channel puede tener por ley o contrato .
usted puede encontrar nuestros procedimientos para dar aviso de alguna presunta infracción de los derechos de autor a continuación .
procedimiento para efectuar una reclamación de infracción de derechos de autor si usted cree que su trabajo ha sido copiado de alguna manera que constituya una violación a los derechos de autor , usted debe enviar una notificación por escrito de la misma , en conformidad con las disposiciones de la ley digital millennium copyright , a nuestro agente designado , que lo puede contactar de la siguiente manera : de conformidad con 17 u.s.c. & sect ; 512 ( c ) , para ser efectiva , la notificación debe incluir lo siguiente : ( i ) una firma física o electrónica de una persona autorizada para actuar en nombre del propietario de un derecho exclusivo presuntamente infringido . ( ii ) la identificación del trabajo cuyo derecho de autor han sido infringido , o , en caso de múltiples trabajos en un solo sitio en línea están cubiertos por una sola notificación , una lista representativa de tales trabajos en ese sitio . ( iii ) la identificación del material que se reclama haber sido infringido o ser objeto de actividad fraudulenta y que debe eliminarse o accederse para deshabilitarse , e información razonablemente suficiente para permitir que clear channel localice el material . ( iv ) la información razonablemente suficiente para permitir que clear channel se ponga en contacto con la parte demandante , tales como dirección , número de teléfono y , si está disponible , una dirección de correo electrónico . ( v ) una declaración de que la parte demandante tiene una creencia de buena fe que el uso del material descrito en la reclamación no está autorizado por el propietario del derecho de autor , su agente o la ley . ( vi ) una declaración de que la información contenida en la notificación es exacta , y bajo pena de perjurio , la parte demandante está autorizada para actuar en nombre del propietario de un derecho exclusivo presuntamente infringido .
este proceso se refiere únicamente a la presentación de una demanda de infracción de derechos de autor .
los mensajes relacionados con otros asuntos no recibirán una respuesta a través de este proceso .
este acuerdo fue modificado la última vez el 9 de noviembre de 2011.drilling for value at national oilwell varco - barrons.com bulletin sur le criquet pèlerin ( no. 423 , 6 jan 2014 ) la situation relative au criquet pèlerin est restée critique en décembre le long des deux rives de la mer rouge .
des groupes de larves et d ’ ailés , des bandes larvaires et des essaims se sont formés au yémen , en arabie saoudite et en érythrée .
des infestations plus petites étaient présentes au soudan .
des opérations de lutte ont été réalisées dans tous ces pays .
windhoek – the year 2013 will always be remembered by namibian farmers as one of the toughest and most challenging periods in 30 years due to the debilitating and devastating drought still threatening the agricultural sector and the country ’ s food security .
mali + 4 others l ’ école est paralysée dans le nord du mali , constate une mission conjointe de l ’ unesco et du gouvernement malien l ’ occupation des régions du nord du mali par des groupes armés a eu de graves conséquences sur le système éducatif .
elle s ’ est traduite par la quasi paralysie du système éducatif dans l ’ académie de tombouctou .
a gao et kidal , la rentrée n ’ a pu avoir lieu .
c ’ est ce qu ’ a pu constater une mission conjointe de l ’ unesco et du gouvernement malien qui s ’ est rendue sur place du 18 au 23 octobre .
mali + 3 others maghreb / sahel : les etats s & # 039 ; engagent à renforcer leur coopération sécuritaire rabat , 14 novembre 2013 ( afp ) - les représentants d 'une vingtaine de pays , dont de nombreux ministres , ont décidé jeudi à rabat de créer un centre de formation pour la sécurité des frontières , et exhorté à davantage de coopération face aux menaces sécuritaires pesant sur le maghreb et le sahel .
delegates hailed the proposal in the " rabat declaration " adopted by 19 countries at a conference in morocco 's capital as an important step towards curbing jihadist unrest in the sahara , notably in mali and libya .
niamey , 30 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - les cadavres de 87 migrants ont été retrouvés mercredi dans le désert nigérien , à une dizaine de kilomètres de la frontière algérienne , a-t-on appris de sources concordantes .
ces victimes ( 7 hommes , 32 femmes et 48 enfants ) s 'ajoutent aux 5 femmes et fillettes issues du même groupe de clandestins , dont les dépouilles avaient été découvertes précédemment par l 'armée nigérienne , a affirmé une source sécuritaire haut placée .
through their lives catholics should be exemplars of the values of jesus and a “ light ” in the darkness that seems to be enveloping trinidad and tobago . ( 1 / 4 / 2014 11 : 26 : 18 pm ) the parshall centennial quilt is one of the projects that will mark the 100th birthday of parshall this summer .
it doesn ’ t take a christopher columbus to figure out that it ’ s a long way from twin buttes to new town , especially when you ’ re battling construction and oilfield traffic .
dr. john weidner had his annual review at the regular meeting of the parshall school board on thursday .
this year weidner received what could be looked at as a " silver star " instead of a " gold star " for his performance .
20.website lures sexy romanian migrants to work as lap dancers in the uk pre-registration is appreciated but walk-in ’ s are always welcome.sponsored by the diocese of the first order of business at monday ’ s velva city commission meeting was to swear in the new president , cindy shattuck . & ldquo ; we need to get the word out to the public : if you send in a complaint about an abandoned or junk vehicle , we will act . & rdquo ; of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsprima criză a globalizării | cadran politic nu e nevoie de nici o demonstratie a faptului ca traim vremuri de criza .
o omenire sta atârnata de ecrane pe care urmareste lupte dure si dispute amare .
dar sintagma ce se afla pe buzele tuturor , & # 8220 ; criza irakiana & # 8221 ; acopera de fapt doua crize .
criza irakiana propriu-zisa e veche si se poate explica în termeni foarte simpli .
un stat & # 8211 ; irakul azi , îsi ataca în 1990 vecinul & # 8211 ; kuwait , si îl ocupa .
e somat de catre consiliul de securitate sa evacueze teritoriile ocupate si nu se conformeaza .
dupa paisprezece rezolutii este obligat de coalitia militara condusa de sua , sa o faca .
razboiul din golf a fost cel mai spectacular si urmarit conflict de dupa razboiul mondial .
consiliul de securitate decide dezarmarea si cum aceasta nu se realizeaza , irakul e somatde un nou rând de rezolutii sa se conformeze , si un nou embargo se instituie .
criza irakiana se întinde peste un deceniu .
ea urmeaza schema sistemului international clasic : un stat ataca pe altul si agresiunea e condamnata .
statul victima cere ajutor , dar nu de la onu , al carui sistem de securitate colectiva nu a functionat decât în cazul razboiului coreean , din cauza scaunului gol al unei mari puteri ( urss ) , ce putea obiecta .
ceea ce nu a însemnat sa nu joace alte roluri , ca operatiile de mentinere a pacii si a supravegherii liniilor de armistitiu .
sistemul de securitate colectiva din carta onu presupunea mijloace de constrângere , trupe internationale terestre , navale si aeriene puse la dispozitia onu , care sa conduca operatii militare cu generalii numiti de organizatie .
deci pe cine se bazeaza un agresat , daca nu pe ajutorul unor state interesate în pacea regiunii , a unor aliati , a unor prieteni si vecini ?
ei vor invoca desigur condamnarea formala a agresorului de catre onu .
aceasta organizatie este expresia de vârf a actualului sistem international bazat pe state membre .
nu poate face decât ce vor acestea .
carta îi interzice sa se amestece în treburile interne .
în crize lungi de patru decenii , ca cea a apartheidului , n-a putut interveni efectiv : a fost invocat principiul de aur al neamestecului în treburile interne .
în marea majoritate a conflictelor ce au avut loc , onu nici macar nu si-a spus cuvântul .
razboaie ca vietnamul , afganistanul , razboaie africane sau latino-americane , nu au figurat pe ordinea de zi .
marile puteri au paralizat timp de cinci decenii , cu sau fara razboi rece , sistemul de interventie colectiva al natiunilor unite .
crizele politice au fost întotdeauna dramatice . în ele este vorba de conflicte între parti care fusesera legate de interese comune , dar , din cauza unui litigiu nesolutionat , se afla în situatia rupturii , adica a întreruperii relatiilor si interactiunii normale , înlocuite eventual prin interactiunea violenta ( conflict armat , razboi ) sau a alternativei fericite a reconcilierii pe bazaunei solutii pasnice .
în timpul razboiului rece , care a fost presarat cu multe crize : interventia sovietica în ungaria ( 1956 ) , criza berlinului ( 1959-1961 ) , crizarachetelor din cuba ( 1962 ) , interventia sovietica în cehoslovacia ( 1968 ) si alte crize în numeroase tari afro-asiatice , acestea au fost teste ale coexistentei .
unele situau omenirea pe pragul catastrofei nucleare , ca în cazul crizei cubaneze .
daca între superputerile nucleare s-ar fi putut produce o ruptura ireparabila , altele provocau doar proteste diplomatice sau înasprirea relatiilor care însa continuau , restabilind echilibrul nesigur si instabil al terorii si facând sa reintre lucrurile într-un fagas relativ ( si precar ) de normalitate .
dupa patru sedinte aprinse , consiliul de securitate , în criza cubaneza , si-a suspendat sedintele , n-a adoptat nici o rezolutie si nici macar nu a înregistrat acordul realizat prin canalele bilaterale americano-sovietice .
trasatura pe care o deducem din aceasta succinta incursiune istorica , ca fiind caracteristica pentru criza politica internationala , este ruperea , fisura , spartura unui sistem ce tinea unite parti care în timpul crizei contemplau separarea .
exista o criza a relatiilor între partile componente ale cehoslovaciei ; ea se termina prin divizarea tarii in doua state noi , pe cale pasnica .
exista cam în acelasi timp o criza a federatiei iugoslave ; ea duce la desfacerea tarii în sase unitati statale noi , de data asta cu spasme violente si razboi .
descompunerea federatiilor si statelor secolului trecut , cea mai spectaculara fiind aceea a uniunii sovietice ( zece state noi ! ) tine de secolul trecut si de sistemul international care l-a caracterizat .
acest sistem creat la 1648 la închiderea razboiului de treizeci de ani , se bazeaza pe state , ca unice unitati legitime ale scenei lumii .
la rascruce de secole si milenii , un alt sistem de organizare a lumii se anunta : sistemul global .
în primul rând , acesta mai are si alti actori decât statele : corporatii ( în unele cazuri mai bogate decât statele & # 8211 ; cu cifre de afaceri mai mari decât bugetele saupib-ul acestora ) , organisme neguvernamentale , societate civila , societate academica , grupari profesionale , orase , regiuni si de ce nu , chiar indivizi .
când lordul bertrand russell , laureat al premiului nobel si pacifist , a trimis o scrisoare lui kennedy si hrusciov în timpul crizei cubaneze , a avut mai multa audienta internationala decât multe figuri politice ca precursor al vocii societatii civile .
în al doilea rând , globalitatea aceasta e irezistibila .
ea se bazeaza pe tehnologie avansata , al carei uz de facilitare a comunicarii si informatiei , dincolo si peste orice granita geografica , schimbând sensul timpului si spatiuluipentru omul contemporan , nu se pune la vot si nu cere aprobarea nimanui .
conditiile pentru regruparea omeniri în retele de interese sunt astfel create .
daca este pe internet , un articol al acestei reviste va fiaccesibil în orice loc al planetei .
la ora aceasta , ne aflam în tranzitie de la sistemul international la sistemul global .
primul are institutii cu reguli , norme si conventii , în frunte cu natiunile unite si cu marea sa familie de agentii guvernamentale .
sistemul global nu are înca institutii , nici reglementari .
pe terenul sau liber intra tot soiul de actori ilegali , care profita de starea de interregn , cum sunt toti traficantii de arme , de carne alba , de bani negri , mafiotii si teroristii .
alte activitati pasnice si importante au beneficiat de globalitate si au adus activitatile lor la niveluri exceptionale : cooperarea financiara , comertul , cooperarea economica , stiintifica , cea educativa , turistica , aproape toate , în mod predominant , efectuate de actori neguvernamentali .
statele si guvernele sunt ultimii beneficiari ai mijloacelor globalitatii .
în materie de propaganda si imagine , au deschis pagini utile de internet , dar activitatile lor practica în general contactul bilateral , predominant face-to-face , sau cel multilateral în conferinte si reuniuni numeroase , la care delegatii guvernamentali se deplaseaza fizic .
mii de conferinte ar putea fi economisite prin sistemul e-conferences pentru care toate conditiile sunt întrunite .
globalizarea e usor de recunoscut : multiplicitatea de actori si strânsa lor conexiune .
zecile de organisme internationale prezente în conflictele balcanilor satisfac prima caracteristica , dar nu si pe a doua .
actori mari ca organismele integrate nu si-au definit pozitia în globalitate si atât mai putin în sistemul onu .
globalizarea apeleaza mai energic la interventia în treburile interne ale statelor în cazul delincventelor grave , într-o perioada în care statele accepta transferul de suveranitate în procesele de integrare , dar dispune de mijloace pasnice bine puse la punct .
iarasi , prima trasatura e vizibila în evenimentele recente , dar a doua nu .
globalizarea e pragmatica si nu doctrinara , iar sistemul ei multipolar .
prima caracteristica se poate vedea , a doua nu e înca realizata .
criza a doua , de sub eticheta irakiana , priveste un conflict neviolent .
este în faza discursurilor .
priveste tensiunea si ciocnirile de opinii contrare ale membrilor a trei organizatii : nato , ue si onu .
motivul este tot irakul , dar radacinile neîntelegerii si mai ales consecintele nu tin de speta dezbaterii , adica de modul de a dezarma irakul prin interventie armata sau metode pasnice .
însa , tot criza este , daca tinem seama ca sensul acestui termen vine de la grecescul & # 8220 ; a decide & # 8221 ; si intr-adevar soarta unei crize sta în decizia de la punctele ei de rascruce , acolo unde spirala merge în sus spre explozie sau deznodamânt fatal sau pe trepte în jos în de-escaladare .
crizele celor trei organizatii sunt crize politice , de sistem .
ele nu sunt crize de securitate ci privesc modul în care aceasta este asigurata .
mai mult : se refera la organizarea lumii .
au loc într-un moment istoric când se trece de la un sistem la altul .
a avut oare acest sistem global timp sa aiba crize când se afla de abia în anii copilariei ?
sa luam , de pilda , actele teroriste din septembrie 2001 în new york .
numai prin intensitate ele difera de ceea ce traim din anii 1970 încoace .
terorismul e o plaga a vechiului sistem mostenita de globalitate .
e o criza de securitate , care nu poate fi asigurata prin metodele clasice .
dar , desi poate fi facilitat de transportul facil , legaturi , comunicare si mijloace ale globalitatii , nu este un produs al acesteia .
magnitudinea si intensitatea sfidarii sunt într-adevar noi , dar fenomenul e o expresie sau un produs al crizelor vechi si al ranilor nevindecate ale secolului trecut .
nici vociferarile împotriva carentelor globalizarii si a lipsei institutiilor de sistem nu înseamna înca o criza , nici protestele celor ce se simt dezavantajati de cursa ei frenetica competitiva .
termenul de criza se aplica la evenimentele din februarie 2003 când s-a ivit o fisura în componenta principala a sistemului international si anume în organismele înfiintate si sustinute de societatea occidentala sau euroatlantica.gravitatea acestei crize consta in alternativele solutiei : adâncirea fisurii pâna la ruptura sau separare si continuarea conlucrarii .
confruntarea celor doua puncte de vedere ( sua & # 8211 ; anglia si înca 40 de state pentru interventie neîntârziata , franta & # 8211 ; germania împreuna cu china si rusia pentru proceduri pasnice sub egida onu , sustinute de alte state si largi miscari populare ) a adus o modificare paradoxala a problemei : cazul irak prezenta o importanta mai mica decât consecintele ei pentru lumea occidentala .
din septembrie 2001 , aceasta lume e trezita la o realitate dura : e sfidata de acte teroriste majore si de un pericol de tip nou , cu un dusman greu de identificat si de localizat ; se afla minoritara într-o lumeostila , în ascendenta numerica rapida ; are de rezolvat probleme noi cu institutii si metode vechi si ineficiente .
trece acest prag al dificultatii si creeaza o larga alianta a civilizatiei care uneste state din toate categoriile si regiunile împotriva dusmanului comun .
si putin dupa aceea , pe tema tacticii de urmat în cazul saddam , aceasta lume mica se rupe în doua , distrugând si marea coalitie antiterorista dupa ea .
din punct de vedere istoric , este cea mai mare eroare ce se putea produce la începutul unui secol , pe care l-ar fi transformat într-o era anarhica si distrugatoare pentru pozitia ei în lume .
criza a fost dezbatuta , solutia a fost cautata si protagonistii au revenit la ratiune în trei acte .
februarie 2003 .
la sediul nato din bruxelles se discuta cererea statutara a turciei de a primi ajutor de la organizatie .
sua este profund interesata în sprijinirea unui aliat de baza în campania anti-irakiana , interes denuntat de un trio european : franta , germania si belgia care se opun , motivând o miscare ce ar facilita solutia razboiului .
si în acest caz , tema formala e mult depasita de implicatiile deciziei .
o solutie a secretariatului general esueaza .
alta este creata prin explorarea unor proceduri interne .
ea reuseste .
nato evita o ruptura , continua sa functioneze pe o platforma comuna .
alternativa a fost evitata .
nici suasi sustinatorii sai , nici franta si prietenii sai nu au creat noi institutii obediente si fidele .
februarie 2003 .
se joaca la bruxelles , la sediul ue .
ministrii de externe membri ai consiliului sunt chemati sa se pronunte în privinta unui punct de vedere european comun fata de problema dezarmarii irakului .
la început , confruntare aspra a partizanilor solutiei sua , si a celor favorizând metoda onu .
la orizont , imposibilitatea unui acord si prin aceasta distrugerea oricarei aspiratii de a conduce europa spre o politica externa comuna , piesa esentiala în desfasurarea unitatii europene .
mai mult decât atât , înghetarea întregului proces si polarizarea celor doua tabere în factiuni adverse si rivale .
în ultimul moment , formula comuna e gasita , ratiunea prevaleaza , ue continua sa existe si sa-si urmeze programul .
martie 2003. se joaca la onu , în sala consiliului desecuritate .
batalia se duce în jurul unei rezolutii prezentate de sua si anglia , cerând în esenta lumina verde pentru interventia lor , ca urmare a neîndeplinirii de catre irak a cererilor impuse de rezolutia unanima a consiliului se securitate 1441 din decembrie .
oricât de ciudat ar parea , si în acest caz , faptul daca irakul este atacat de fortele sua sau nu , aremai putina importanta decât daca atacul se face cu aprobarea tacita sau expresa a onu sau daca o dezaprobare e sanctificata printr-un veto sau un vot negativ în consiliul de securitate .
ultimul caz distruge ceea ce mai exista dinautoritatea onu si risca sa puna organizatia la cosul relicvelor vetuste ale istoriei .
înseamna ca intram într-o perioada în care normele si institutiile create pentru pacea si securitatea internationala , chiar asa slabe si ineficiente cum sunt , nu mai au valabilitate .
preludiu procedural minuscul la razboiul de treizeci de ani al noului secol , dupa unii .
rezolutia nu se pune la vot .
fisura nu se adânceste .
exista o rezolutie unanima din noiembrie 2002 , care poate fi interpretata diferit .
razboiul poate începe în interpretarea sua , dar nu este legal în interpretarea altora ; aparentele formale sunt salvate .
onu îsi continua activitatea .
mai mult decât atât , are în reconstructie un rol recunoscut de toti .
ue îsi mentine coeziunea în jurul acestei idei ( summit-ul din martie ) , adoptând un text unanim .
de data aceasta onu e mai bine pregatita pentru activitate , are agentii de asistenta umanitara si practica în restabilirea ordinii de stat ( cambodgia ) .
sua au facut la azore o declaratie care se îndeparta de planurile ei anuntate anterior de a guverna singura tara în timpul perioadei de reconstructie , recunoscând rolul onu .
razboiul se desfasoara pe o perioada nesigura , dar lumea vorbeste de perioada postbelica , subiect reparator pentru tensiunea celor trei organizatii vizitate de criza .
dar aceasta nu e rezolvata .
noi dispute se anunta în privinta rezolutiilor care vor fi adoptate la onu pentru demararea procesului .
în fond , onu a girat si fondul veniturilor din petrol de care irakul dispunea doar pentru hrana si medicamente .
oponentii razboiului , ca franta si rusia , anunta ca nu vor vota nimic ceea ce ar putea legitima retrospectiv interventia militara a sua .
chiar daca se acorda sanse de reconciliere la nivelul liderilor , societatea civila manifesta prin miscarile sale mult mai adânci diviziuni si tendinte de radicalizare .
reforma onu sau o noua institutie a societatilor globalizate , structura institutionala si politica a noului sistem ( cine face legea , cine decide ) , locul fiecaruia în sistem ( ue sau nato ) vor fi marea tema a acestui secol .
la urma urmei , e vorba de marea familie a omenirii si de supravietuirea ei în conditii de pace .
abilene police and fire blotter 1 / 6 / 2014 sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 27 pm est cancellations & delays sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 pm est booming austin sees costs of living skyrocket sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 27 pm est roscas popular locally on three kings day mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 27 am est vazquez seeks commish post sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 27 am est ufo festival unveils schedule of events sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 27 am est legislator seeks nm vote on marijuana legalization fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 27 pm est nm man to stand trial in brutal beating death fri jan 3 , 2014 2 : 27 pm est new tax law may halt automatic gratuity charges at some restaurants sat jan 4 , 2014 4 : 27 pm est ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 27 am est man who slapped crying toddler on flight to be sentenced mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 27 am est restaurateur fulfills lifelong dream by opening her own cajun restaurant in huntington sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 27 am est citys sales tax rebates increase for 3rd straight year sun jan 5 , 2014 02 : 27 am est marshall top ladies sun jan 5 , 2014 06 : 27 am est man sentenced to shock probation on burglary counts mon jan 6 , 2014 02 : 27 am est role of obamacare navigators up for deba ...
mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 27 am est west 1st responders honored as texans of the year sun dec 29 , 2013 04 : 27 am est that was 40 years ago -- see what i mean by repetition ?
i raised the question of government corruption with a number of the new donors , and one surprised me by saying , " it is possible to run successful businesses even in a country where the government is corrupt . "
these are trifling examples of what is a general tendency ; the thefts by one politician in zambia , as revealed in court in 2007 , ran to over $ 50 million , and as i described in detail in my last book of african travels , oil-rich angola is rife with corruption .
a western diplomat in west africa told me recently how china has become the new briber and enabler in the continent .
my students made me aware that , to see a foreign donor or dignitary hob-nobbing with the hated head of state , is to be severely undermined .
ugandan president yoweri museveni was visited in 1998 by u.s. president bill clinton , who described him as " the head of a new breed of african leaders . "
then museveni invaded and tried to overthrow the governments of the congo and rwanda , rigged elections , and disdained gays ; he no longer seemed like a new breed . © 2014 indexmundi - all rights reservedthai visa for usa [ usa visa for thais & girlfriends ] [ uk visas for spouses & girlfriends ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer the hazen star is counting down its top 10 stories of the year privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
brookings register automotivebridalbusinesseducationfamily livingfashion / fitnessgift ideasgreen livinghealthhome decoratinghome improvement / constructionhot topicshow-tokitchen / bed / bathlawn / gardenmoney / financepetsreal estaterecipes / entertainingseasonalsenior livingtech talk / innovationtravel letter : an issue of critical importance to the people of dangriga in southern belize not end of road for pupils who missed admission - tamongsco na waryoba yankami “ california parks director resigns amid scandal ” — the sacramento bee in the interests of the protection of our users ' privacy across the km group 's portfolio of websites , we are adopting the following we want to ensure that all of our visitors are made aware of the prefer , you can set your browser to refuse cookies .
you should be properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by them. experience , but are not controlled in your web browser in the same stormwater projects on agenda thu dec 26 , 2013 2 : 14 pm est man to be sentenced after ambulance crash mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 14 am est sex offender seeks admission to kentucky bar sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 14 pm est popular safety city and dare programs on the city ’ s chopping block wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt man admits beating his girlfriend ’ s grandmother to death wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt teen convicted in friend ’ s slaying to continue treatment fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt 2,300 in lexington for state ffa convention , and they ’ re not all farmers fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt pair indicted in death of whitley county toddler wed dec 4 , 2013 12 : 14 pm est corbin police arrest burglary suspect wed dec 4 , 2013 06 : 14 am est barrels a day in order to ensure a stable and balanced oil market . the new opec reference basket of crudes ( orb ) is made up of the following : “ we can ’ t make it rain , ” utah governor gary herbert said last month at a forum in washington , d.c. , “ but we can do a better job of preparing for drought conditions and mitigating the impacts of drought . ” ’ polar vortex ’ pushes subzero temps into midwest mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 28 am est woman killed in car accident in starksboro mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 28 am est plans are in place for 3-state snowmobile weekend sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 28 am est stimmel to lead estey organ museum mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 28 am est hercules not too strong for windham county sat jan 4 , 2014 04 : 28 am est fighter jet opponents see florida trip as ’ junket ’ mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 28 am est a ’ labor of love ’ in burlington mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 28 am est propane leak closes isle la motte school mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 28 am est group demonstrates for ’ robin hood tax ’ at leahy ’ s office mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 28 am est ice fishing off to good start sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 28 pm est fatal crash in starksboro sun jan 5 , 2014 6 : 28 pm est car crashes into tunbridge barn sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 28 am est stalemate at mine run mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 28 am est aspca closes storied enforcement unit in nyc mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 28 am est sex offender seeks admission to kentucky bar mon jan 6 , 2014 04 : 28 am est ny offers free adirondack snowmobiling map sun jan 5 , 2014 04 : 28 am est the biggest globe in uzbekistan was solemnly presented in bukhara uzbekistan : the clearance of plane trees , oaks and elms reached the graveyards « ihate stupidity and flattery ...
maxim popov , his friends and enemies what is the true purpose of the anti-tajik protests in uzbekistan ?
dilshod usmanov : the future of our country is the future of our children the invasion of gypsy moth in the capital of uzbekistan the six issue of the only newspaper of labor immigrants in moscow is available now despite a meager one point lead at the half , the aggies went on to finish last friday ’ s game in high style , ousting the rugby panthers 28-6 .
that is the takeaway i want anyone to have from my experience .
if you are feeling depressed or anything close to that , it is not going to change unless you do .
scott , i don & # 8217 ; t know you but i am really proud of you , and anyone , who has the courage to make this decision .
b , i appreciate the first sentence of your comment .
but mcmaster has been incredible to me and people here have shown a ton of support , so i & # 8217 ; ve got to disagree .
if you think it is no place to get better , i am sorry you feel that way but don & # 8217 ; t infer that i am leaving because of this school .
news of the imminent effect of drilling of the bakken oil formation has been a hot topic lately .
now the center city council is finding that the oil wave may be surging closer than previously expected .
a special investigative report delivered by the committee on operation tokomeza is what touched off ministers ’ removal by vicarious responsibility .
there was no way for president jakaya kikwete to minimize the pressure by lawmakers demanding the resignation of premier pinda , but to sack the ministers .
at the end all concerned ministers had to go , despite that the premier and the president generally considered the case of dr mathayo david mathayo as not quite responsible as the ministry of livestock development and fisheries was out of line , not having any warders or armed troops of any sort. de representar a los miles de inmigrantes que tienen que trabajar doble jornada para salir adelante el chile chipotle , además de ser un condimento picante , ofrece un sabor ahumado ...
descubre con qué bebidas típicas celebran la navidad y el año nuevo en diferente ...
la mesas en las casas de las familias latinas se llenan de sabores , olores y co ...
conoce los alimentos de esta temporada de otoño y en qué benefician a tu salud , ...
¿ beber agua adelgaza ?
¿ cuántos litros debo tomar al día ?
¿ con sodio o sin sodio ? ...
una dieta que propone regresar a los orígenes y alimentarse como lo hacían nuest ...
una gran historia de amor e integras a las que nos tiene acostumbrad ...
los más bellos , bellas y sexys de la televisión latina conoce los rostros más bellos de la televisión latina del 2013 .
muertes que han impactado al mundo del espectáculo llevándose a homb ...
jk on warioba 's second draft : if it will not pass , there will be no new constitution december 7 , 2013 , was a historical day in the community living on mountain hill side of usambaras in lushoto district , tanga region .
a thunderous wheezing sound from a group of hippopotamuses floating on katuma river near sitalike village could be heard as we entered the katavi national park in mpanda district , katavi region enthralling bishop charles gadi of the dar es salaam based good news for all ministry .
the fate of the long waited kigamboni bridge is still trembling after the long persistence of the four kigamboni residents who refused to leave the area so as to pave way for the construction of the bridge .
the genesis of the constitution reviews is traced to the ashes of election process where losers in election process in and as a defence mechanism faulted the election managers as the cause of their failure to go power .
it is approaching the end of the year .
tanzanians as other people in the world are preparing themselves to celebrate the christmas and new year festival .
why is tanzania short of safe water ?
problem is mismanagement - experts but kassims ’ work ’ , is not of the usual kind , as he is a ’ substance abuse therapist ’ at one of the sober houses in zanzibar , doing a job that can offer satisfaction and problems in equal measure .
the pitfalls of constitution - making in tanzania : the lessons so far at the end of last month , prof issa shivji delivered a lecture to the university of dodoma convocation , at which the internationally acclaimed lawyer dwelt on the ongoing constitution-making process , pinpointing pitfalls and lessons so far learnt .
shutling pontoons and barges move to and from incoming and outgoing ships at the tanga port – an oldest maritime facility on tanzania ’ s coastline of the indian ocean .
at nunge , a location overlooking the india ocean , at kigamboni in temeke district , southern past of dar es salaam , one comes across a home for the elderly .
news that dr sengondo mvungi , a constitutional law legend , has passed on is deeply saddening to me and undoubtedly many others who knew him .
i have known dr mvungi since 2001 as i was privileged to be in his constitutional law class at the faculty of law , university of dar es salaam .
in my view his death was preventable at two societal and institutional levels .
as a society in the city of dar es salaam we seem to have resigned and left the fate of our security in the hands of a few disjointed militia groups to deal with the unresolved menace of seemingly organised terror groups ( of 10 to 30 youths ) going by different operational names .
is the current leadership crisis in eac a danger to the survival of the organization ?
yes , indeed , it is technically , both were members of the authority , but operationally mwalimu would not sit at a table with iddi amin ( ’ simtaki muuaji huyu ’ ) .
basking in the sun on a hot day one afternoon , a half dozen or so crocodiles are seen taking a break on the riverside of wami river .
we will not cease to remember and cherish father of the nation mwalimu nyerere because of his wisdom and love to his people .
fourteen years after his death the nation still sobs and remembers the great leader who was an assurance of peace and protection for the poor and disadvantaged majority .
las olas art fair continues sunday in lauderdale sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est fort lauderdale ’ s beach place declared a nuisance sun jan 5 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est rip current warning for wednesday tue dec 24 , 2013 6 : 10 pm est in 2014 , get ready for hot air and a cold super bowl sat jan 4 , 2014 10 : 10 pm est ’ canes coach al golden : ’ i am not a candidate for another position ’ sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est symptom checkers available online if you cant reach a doctor mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est man arrested for fatal shooting of woman in lauderhill mon jan 6 , 2014 12 : 10 am est police : man kidnapped , tried to strangle wife sun jan 5 , 2014 8 : 10 pm est broward man dies in key largo dinghy accident thu dec 12 , 2013 08 : 10 am est boar ’ s head festival set for epiphany sunday sun jan 5 , 2014 4 : 10 pm est ramadi clashes video mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est inside the 4g car : chevrolet ’ s new app center mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est stranded whales die mon jan 6 , 2014 06 : 10 am est apple bruised on wells fargo downgrade fri jan 3 , 2014 08 : 10 am est plane skids off runway at ny ’ s jfk ; flights halted sun jan 5 , 2014 12 : 10 pm est if you drive by the leland olds station , you may notice something new .
privacy policyterms of useabout uscontact usemploymentlinksventure marketing © 2013 bhg , inc . all rights reserved .
brookings register online click the " forgot password " link under the login box located on the upper right corner of the page .
a : to log in to the website , enter the username and password you received via email in the username and password filed located q : what do i do if i 've forgotton my password ... to the email address on record for the account .
note , the browser limit will typically be reached only if you try logging in to the site q : what do i do if i 've received the " browser limit exceeded " error page ...
q : what are newsstand credits and how are they used ... of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqsgeneral mills stock may see soggier returns - barrons.com my parents were sitting in the front , facing the highway , and i was sitting behind them , facing disownment .
when i finally managed to say it – in what i hope was a nonchalant but formal tone – i held my breath for their response .
i don ’ t know why i was so surprised that my parents reacted so calmly : they ’ re very reasonable people who have been around for a few years .
long enough to know what is and isn ’ t worth freaking out about .
that moment in the minivan reinforced a message my parents had taught to me throughout the years , mostly by example .
maybe you bombed a test you didn ’ t study for .
maybe you got a bad grade on a paper you wrote during an all-nighter .
maybe you tried to learn all of personality in one weekend by listening to the podcasts while you slept , and for some reason still did poorly on the midterm .
it happens to everyone .
we all slip up on our studying schedules , or go out on nights before midterms , or convince ourselves that starting an hbo series three days before a paper is due is totally fine and you ’ ll be able to get it done anyways .
take a bit to be sad .
curl up in blankets .
eat something because of the way it tastes .
get a good , tight , warm hug .
but it ’ s not the end of the world .
it ’ s not even the end of your world .
remind yourself about the things you ’ re good at , whether that be chemistry or a video game .
do one of those things .
talk to someone who knows how rad you are , and reminds you of that .
when i was in the fifth grade , i convinced my parents to let me get an email address .
i thought long and hard about what i wanted this address to be .
it had to be cool , obviously , and it had to be me .
a difficult dichotomy to negotiate , yes , but it finally came to me .
i told my father who wrote it down so he was sure to get it right , and later that night he showed me how to log in to my first email account : if i can live with that , man , we ’ re all going to be okay .
take a nap .
eat a cookie .
talk to a friend .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires rwandais « affirme un déserteur .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires & bdquo ; pas loin de quatre vingt-dix pour cent ( 90 & percnt ) des combattants de la rébellion m23 qui se bat à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , sont des militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise « , a affirmé à la bbc un des quatre rwandais recrutés et forcés de rejoindre les rangs des rebelles du m23 .
les ces quatre individus ont déclaré avoir été recrutés de force au rwanda par prêter main forte aux rebelles du m23 qui sévissent à l ’ est de la rdc depuis des mois.après s ’ être échappés , ils ont demandél ’ asile en ouganda , d ’ où ils ont livré leur témoignage à la bbcce mardi le 31 juillet .
un des déserteurs affirme que le mouvement m23 est constitué à 90 & percnt de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise .
un autre transfuge quisuivaitdes études de médecine au rwanda lors de son recrutement forcé pour le compte du m23 , a indiqué à la bbc , qu ’ il a soigné plus de 300 combattants du m23 blessés au les témoignages de ces déserteurs corroborent le contenu du rapport de humanrights watch ( hrw ) publié le 22juillet dernier.dans ce rapport d ’ autres combattants , recrutés de force au rwanda et qui ont réussi à s ’ échapper , ont combattre de l ’ autre coté de la frontière rwandaise.dans ce rapport , ces combattants ont également rapporté que la rébellion m23 est constituée en grande partie de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise et de combattants recrutés de force au ce n ’ est pas la première fois que des recrues rwandaises pour le compte du m23 demandent asile en ouganda .
le 20 juin dernier , 16 étudiants rwandais ( 14 hommes et deux femmes ) y avaient encore demandé l ’ asile en déclarant être victimes du harcèlement des autorités de leur pays pour avoir refusé de se joindre auxrebelles du m23.deux de ces étudiants en fuite ont affirmé qu ’ ils avaient refusé de participer au programme parce que leurs amis qui y sont allés le rwanda continue de nier son soutien au m23 malgré l ’ accumulation des le porte parole de l ’ armée rwandaise , joseph nzabamwita , a déclaré à la bbc haiti hopes miracle moringa tree can help to combat malnutrition | felix von geyer
