fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
07 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
07 dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living planet the eu at cancun , solar bottlenecks , tuna wars and a tiger breakthrough listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1973 : oil crisis forces an oil ban © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live food and drink taste europe 's highlights .
specialty beer from sylt oyster safari in denmark a meal in provence podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live arts meet some of the people who are transforming germany 's ruhr region .
singer riccardo doppio graffiti artist danijel brekalo architect gabriele frielinghaus designer constanze alef photography an italian photo project aims to break down barriers between generations and cultures .
listen to the report picture gallery podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1859 : theory of evolution was published © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1956 : national uprising erupts in hungary © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : first frankfurt book fair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with clarinettist martin fröst listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top german 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1956 : national uprising erupts in hungary © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : first nuclear chain reaction in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1912 : german library in leipzig © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living in germany listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live sports report listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1925 : publication of " mein kampf " dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the road to success -jutta kleinschmidt volkswagen - 12 companies and large ambitions looking ahead - transportation in tomorrow 's world 125 years of the car - the history of motoring stock exchange today in history 1945 : auschwitz liberated © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1887 : presentation of the gramophone © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : rosemarie nitribitt murdered © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
sole meunière tortelloni with jerusalem artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland swedish crispbread recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1913 : rudolf diesel drowns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live stock exchange today in history 1517 : reformation day © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell - das magazin aus brüssel we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress 60th anniversary of un refugee convention highlights plight of the displaced around the globe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1997 : jan ullrich wins the tour de france dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9800 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell - das magazin aus brüssel we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress 60th anniversary of un refugee convention highlights plight of the displaced around the globe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1978 : first test-tube baby dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : west germany becomes a sovereign state dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1963 : german-french friendship treaty © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1992 : chains of light against racism © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : first nuclear chain reaction in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1589 : beginning of construction of court brewery © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live learning by ear listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9800 dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra international listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week the invisble man of music : conductor muir mathieson listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1963 : � the silence � © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : austrian neutrality © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live audio slide show aerial theater a young norwegian acrobat is following her passion - despite rope burns .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : the first bikini dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : the " rubble women " get started dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
lamb with vegetable casserole sole meunière tortelloni with artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland recent picture galleries summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
german pop - max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1953 : the " doctors � plot " rattles moscow © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1901 : telegraphy across the atlantic ocean © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet venice 's sea wall , fish conflict-mediation , industrial agriculture , rwandan methane listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds gregor zubicky – artistic manager of the swedish chamber orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live living planet un climate summit in cancun , mexico listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz our quiz this month asks about the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw partner site our reporter takes an odyssey across berlin - on cross country skis .
watch the report podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet un climate summit in cancun , mexico listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour halle 1 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour an hour of music off the beaten track listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1842 : founding of the vienna philharmonic orchestra © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history : © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1953 : the " doctors � plot " rattles moscow © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1929 : heart catheter � self experiment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1991 : " ötzi " found © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1905 : � salome � scandal in dresden © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : minister brought down due to the greenpeace affair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1929 : heart catheter � self experiment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1905 : � salome � scandal in dresden © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : berlin surrenders © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1842 : founding of the vienna philharmonic orchestra © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet humans relations with animals listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1811 : friedrich jahn sets up first open-air gymnasium dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week miriam makeba , aka mama africa - died on nov .
10 , 2008 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- feedback what 's the way forward in the dispute over iran 's nuclear program ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour summer music days in hitzacker listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de iran -pipe- 26.09.2007 opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw 's chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing . there have been many unforgettable speeches to the united nations .
who can forget the drama created by nikita khrushchev , fidel castro , yasser arafat or hugo chavez ?
iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is n't in that league .
his mixture of arrogance , obstinacy , aggression and zealotry is too predictable , and not even the intended targets take his attacks seriously .
certainly not the american public , whose eyes ahmadinejad had wanted to open .
but the us and europe also wasted an opportunity to take the wind out of ahmadinejad 's sails .
columbia university showed courage in inviting him to speak but undermined that bravery by introducing him as a " narrow-minded dictator . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : peter philipp and that was the basic tenor at the united nations general assembly .
george w. bush did n't refer to iran in his speech and did n't attend ahmadinejad 's .
instead bush relied on french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel to push america 's line on iran .
the french president tried - unsuccessfully - to dispel the impression that paris accepts an attack on iraq as a possibility .
the german chancellor meanwhile advanced the legally and politically untenable position that the world does n't have to prove iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons , but rather that iran must convince the world its intentions are peaceful .
president bush was no doubt satisfied that his common front against tehran looks more solid than ever .
but appearances are deceiving .
when the topic of new sanctions is next broached , the nations of europe are likely to react differently - depending on the extent to which their economic interests are connected to iran .
it 's easy for washington to say sanctions should be toughened because the us does n't officially do business with iran .
germany has already restricted its exports , but there 's no sign of france adopting a similar policy toward tehran .
is it clever of the west to accuse iran of something that can not be proven ?
that strategy only serves to provoke ahmadinejad , leading him to divide the world into good and evil , arrogant oppressors and victims .
and a hardening of the fronts is in no one 's interest - neither the west 's nor iran 's .
it may be tactically clever for iran to declare the debate " closed , " to reiterate the claim that its nuclear program is peaceful and to insist that further discussions be held within the international atomic energy agency .
but this is not the way to solve the conflict .
if all sides are truly interested in finding a solution , they 'll have to come up with something better .
peter philipp is dw 's chief correspondent -lrb- jc -rrb- . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de merkel lobbies for un security council seat german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- sarkozy lobs accusation at iran over nuclear program ahead of a un security council meeting on the issue , french president nicolas sarkozy accused iran of trying to obtain a nuclear bomb and said he supported " stronger sanctions " to prevent that from happening .
-lrb- 21.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
merkel lobbies for un security council seat -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 merkel lobbies for un security council seat großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : making her case german chancellor angela merkel used a speech before the united nations general assembly to bring up concerns about iran and to push forward germany 's bid for a permanent seat on the security council . countries have talked about reforming the un 's most important body for more than 24 years .
currently , only the united states , britain , france , russia and china have had permanent seats on the un security council and the power to veto all resolutions .
germany 's most recent effort to get a permanent seat along with brazil , india and japan collapsed two years ago .
merkel said the time had come for action .
" with its current composition , the security council no longer reflects the world of today , " merkel said during her speech on tuesday , sept .
25 .
" germany is prepared , with the adoption of a permanent security council seat , to take more responsibility . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a seat of one 's own past efforts have been blocked by italy and the united states .
the german government is hopeful that the situation has changed .
one possible compromise that has been suggested is that germany could take a seat for 10 years .
in his speech to the assembly tuesday , united states president george w. bush said he was " open " to expanding the security council and felt that " emerging powers " should be considered .
but he mentioned only japan by name .
besides the permanent seats , the security council has 10 non-permanent seats , which rotate among member countries elected for two-year terms .
merkel threatens tougher sanctions bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel before her moment in the spotlight by the time merkel addressed the un security council tuesday evening , the audience had thinned .
the two most-watched speakers , iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad and bush , had spoken hours before .
ahmadinejad insisted earlier tuesday that the controversy over iran 's nuclear ambitions was a " closed " matter .
but merkel did n't think so .
she used her 16-minute speech to threaten tougher sanctions if iran does n't stop its nuclear program and continues to threaten israel .
" if iran were to acquire the nuclear bomb , the consequences would be disastrous - first and foremost for the existence of israel , secondly for the entire region and ultimately for all of us in europe and the world , " merkel said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran insists its nuclear ambitions are peaceful merkel spoke of germany 's historical responsibilities to israel and said germany will " firmly advocate " harsher sanctions if iran does n't comply .
" it is not the world which must prove that iran is building an atomic bomb .
iran must convince the world that it does not want the atomic bomb , " merkel said .
merkel said tougher sanctions would be necessary if iran did not change its course , but did not specify what those penalties would include .
german officials have said they are considering economic measures .
germany will participate in talks about iran bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ahmadinejad says the nuclear issue is " closed " iran continues to insist that it has the right to develop a civil nuclear program .
ahmadinejad rejects the accusation that his country is trying to develop nuclear weapons and insisted in his speech before the assembly that the controversy " is closed as a political issue " and should be handled by the international atomic energy agency -lrb- iaea -rrb- .
the united states is pushing for further un sanctions against iran and will hold talks later this week with germany and the security council permanent members .
in his speech earlier tuesday , president bush encouraged the assembly to support freedom and democracy in countries with repressive regimes .
he mentioned iran on a list of " brutal regimes " that also included syria , north korea and belarus .
all of those countries " deny their people … fundamental rights , " bush said .
climate change a security concern bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate change could lead to conflict the chancellor also followed up comments from the previous day , where she addressed a united nations summit on global warming .
climate change is a threat to global stability , merkel said , which could cause " global conflict " if left unchecked .
" never before was the understanding among scientists so high , the facts so clear , the need for action so undisputed , " she said .
" every country is affected by the consequences of climate change . " dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : iran and west should talk to , not at one another the united nations could have been a good forum for the west and iran to work on resolving the conflict over iran 's nuclear program .
dw chief correspondent peter philipp says it 's a shame neither side was willing .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- merkel speaks of global need for action on climate change industrialized countries have a moral imperative to reduce co2 emissions , german chancellor angela merkel said monday , sept .
24 .
she spoke at an unprecedented one-day united nations climate conference in new york .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- deputy foreign minister : germany ready for sanctions on iran germany is prepared to impose additional sanctions on iran in the ongoing conflict over its nuclear program , germany 's deputy foreign minister gernot erler said in an interview .
-lrb- 19.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic dw-tv : germany 's chancellor speaks at un general assembly people around the world give opinions on climate change www-links send us your opinion what countries should have permanent places on the united nations security council ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour kent nagano / bavarian state orchestra listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live pulse listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
place charles de gaulle , paris plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
culture calendar september happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live stock exchange today in history 1956 : the conscription act entered into force dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1900 : tragedy of the gneisenau © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1871 : foundation of the german reich © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : sinking of � pamir � sail training ship © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live spectrum listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1983 : franz josef strauss meets erich honecker dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
lamb with vegetable casserole sole meunière tortelloni with artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland recent picture galleries summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 26.09.2007 fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : consumers are unsettled by rising prices and the uncertainty in financial markets analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes . along with similar dips reported in belgium , italy and the netherlands , the german business climate index calculated each month by the munich-based ifo institute for economic research fell to 104.2 points from 105.8 points in august , the institute said on tuesday , sept .
25 .
the index had been steadily falling since april and had now hit its lowest level in one and a half years .
the latest drop resulted from deteriorations in the survey 's current situation and expectations indices .
commerzbank analyst ralph solveen told reporters that the continuing downward trend suggested " a permanent change of course " for the german economy .
" we expect the german economy to lose further steam in the coming quarters , " he told the news agency afp .
analysts predict winter of discontent bildunterschrift : winter this year could be bleak for the german economy solveen 's opinion was echoed by bank of america economist holger schmieding . " the german economy is heading for a significant slowdown this autumn and winter , " he said in an interview with afp .
in germany 's key manufacturing sector , expectations now " reflect only moderate optimism , " ifo president hans-werner sinn said in a statement .
exporting businesses did not fear strong effects from the euro 's rise in value .
the shared european currency hit record highs in trading against the dollar this week . " the manufacturing sector in the euro-zone area is going to get squeezed by some slowing in global demand growth as we go further forward and as well as by the stronger euro , " barclay 's capital economist julian callow told reuters . some analysts have also highlighted other factors for the slide including higher payrolls , the increase in commodity prices , fears over the us economy and the current financial market crisis .
a breakdown of the german data showed that the current sentiment sub-index dipped to 109.9 points in september from 111.4 points in august .
the expectations sub-index also decreased , falling to 98.7 points from 100.4 points , ifo said .
the business climate in retailing had " markedly worsened , " the institute added .
consumers pull in the purse strings global insight economist timo klein was among those who underscored what he called a " rather disappointing sharp drop in retailer sentiment . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the economy should be back on form in time for the summer sales " this is not so much related to financial market turmoil , however , instead being caused by the recent spike of food and oil prices that have unsettled consumers about their purchasing power , " klein said .
schmieding agreed that those factors , along with market uncertainty , " seem to be retarding the long-awaited revival in private consumption . "
but he stressed that " prospects for a rebound in growth from next spring onwards remain bright . "
the german economy is still expected to expand by 2.6 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2008 .
all analysts said the slump in euro-zone growth prospects would make a case for the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to keep its main interest rate at 4.0 percent despite signs that inflation could rise towards the end of the year .
schmieding said the ecb would probably start to " tone down " suggestions that rates might rise , while solveen at commerzbank forecast lending rates would remain stable in the near future .
" at the end of 2008 , the ecb will probably cut interest rates for the first time , " he said . dw staff -lrb- nda -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german economic rebound boosts labor market the solid economic situation in germany has continued to cause a fall in the unemployment rate in europe 's biggest economy to the lowest rate for the month of august since 1995 , new data reveals .
-lrb- 30.08.2007 -rrb- german business confidence declines again german business confidence has slipped in august as the recent round of financial market turmoil unnerves industry leaders .
but the outlook for the coming six months is still marked by optimism .
-lrb- 28.08.2007 -rrb- europeans upbeat about economic outlook despite clouds cast by the us real estate crisis , europeans are still optimistic about the current economic situation , according to a continent-wide survey published on thursday .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic study shows consumers less interested in consuming www-links send us your opinion have the recent financial scares affected your spending habits ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1915 : airship bombs london © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
endangered languages are not like endangered species -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de language -pipe- 26.09.2007 endangered languages are not like endangered species großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : yiddish is one of europe 's endangered minority languages wednesday , sept .
26 , marks european day of languages .
dw-world.de spoke with linguistics professor wolfgang schulze about the difference between a language and a dialect and the reasons why many tongues die out . wolfgang schulze is a professor for general linguistics at the university of munich . dw-world.de : how many languages are there in europe ? wolfgang schulze : that depends on how you define europe .
usually people demarcate europe as a geographic border that stretches south from the ural to the caucasus mountains , following the so-called georgian military road , and that includes armenia and ends just to the north of turkey in the black sea .
europe is bordered to the north , west and south by bodies of water .
europe in this sense is home to more than 200 languages of extremely diverse origin ...
but europe is definitely not the part of the world with the greatest density of languages .
you have to remember that there are some 900 languages on the island of papua new guinea alone .
nonetheless the diversity of european languages is certainly impressive .
and the number of speakers can vary dramatically - from some 80 million in the case of german to 100 or fewer as is the case with some baltic-finnish tongues . what about dialects ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : schulze says languages are very political if you broaden the question to include dialects , the situation gets even more opaque .
not every language has the same number of dialects , but we can determine a median that 's accurate to within plus or minus 10 .
so we can say there are around 2,000 dialects in europe .
that 's a lot compared with the 23 official languages of the european union . what the difference between a language and a dialect ? there 's no consensus about that among researchers .
but basically you could say that a dialect is a " local " language that shares the grammar , but not necessarily the vocabulary or pronunciation , with neighboring linguistic spaces .
that makes it part of a " dialect continuum " or " total language . "
you could say that what dialects have in common constitutes their common language .
but this language would also have attributes of its own .
in the abstract sense , a " language " would then be one dialect among many .
but the reality is that the language of a country , in contrast to its dialects , gets promoted by the state and is supposed to encourage a linguistic sense of identity among the inhabitants of that country .
basically the distinction between language and dialect is n't a question for linguistics .
it 's a sociological and historical-political question . which european countries have the most languages and dialects ? france and italy are the regions with the most dialects , followed by germany and england .
russia is where you 'll find the most languages - more than 200 if you include the asian part of the country .
in western europe , it 's britain , france , switzerland , italy , and , thanks to the large number of immigrants , germany . are any european languages in danger of becoming extinct and why ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : not every european language has a spot in translation machines of course there are dying languages in europe .
that 's unavoidable .
languages died out in europe during the classical age - think of the many languages in italy that were replaced by latin during the roman empire .
the main reason is that language speakers fear they wo n't be equal to social and economic tasks if they use their " own " language .
they 're afraid of being marginalized .
but there can be other reasons , too .
for example , today , languages can be endangered by the massive presence of another language in the public sphere .
languages can also be burdened with ideological premises - a minority language can be a stigma , a sign of provincialism and backwardness . what 's the predominant language in europe ? that 's a good question .
here we have to distinguish between reality and political emphasis .
in reality , it 's english - american english , not the british form .
the situation might look different from a french perspective .
the political discourse of the eu is heavily influenced by french - but that does n't reduce the role played by english . how " healthy " are minority languages in europe ? if i were a doctor , i 'd describe the patient 's condition as " serious " to " critical . "
but again the question is how we define a minority language .
in many cases , it can be a language of a minority , in terms of percentage , that is still spoken by a significant number of people .
that 's the case with catalonian in spain , breton in france or welsh in britain .
other minority languages are indeed on death 's doorstep .
that 's the case with frisian and sorbian in northern and eastern germany , friulian in the eastern alps , ruthenian in eastern slovakia or minderico in central portugal .
of europe 's 200 languages , we can safely say that around 50 percent are threatened with extinction . are minority languages subject to political misuse ? bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : politicians in germany recently changed some of the country 's spelling and grammar rules that 's a difficult question .
basically i think that minority languages do n't get any real political attention so they ca n't be misused .
but now and again , nationalist circles do use the topic of minority language to oppose the european idea . should we encourage linguistic diversity and , if so , why ? that 's a question of perspective .
no doubt , languages transmit the cultural knowledge of a group of speakers so the loss of a language can mean the loss of that knowledge as well .
but i 've observed that preservation of linguistic diversity is less an issue for the speakers of an endangered language than a need on the part of european cultural elites for diversity as such .
diversity , in of itself , is not a positive value .
it 's the expression of a cultural or political need .
the question here is not the same as whether the extinction or endangerment of certain forms of animal or plant life would disrupt ecological balance .
the comparison between endangered languages and danger to the environment is purely political and has no foundation in science . interview : pablo kummertz -lrb- jc -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german book fair 's choice of catalonia angers spaniards a venerable german book fair 's decision to feature the spanish region of catalonia has sparked outrage from spain 's literary world .
several writers have said they 'll boycott the world 's largest book fair .
-lrb- 09.08.2007 -rrb- the german language 's role in a changing world dw-world spoke with ludwig m. eichinger , director of the institute for the german language , about the place of german in the world today .
-lrb- 24.06.2007 -rrb- virtual adventures make language learning fun mission europe is an online language course based on a totally new learning concept .
with the three action-packed adventure stories , users can learn german , french and polish in a fun and creative way .
-lrb- 11.05.2007 -rrb- feedback how important is linguistic diversity ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1811 : friedrich jahn sets up first open-air gymnasium dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9798 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live news listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
quiz this month 's quiz how much do you know about one of the darkest chapters of modern european history ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz british boxing legend sir henry cooper passed away in may .
do you know what made him so special ? © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
quiz this month 's quiz remember top of the pops ?
well , if you do and want to win a prize , check out our new quiz . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live newslink plus listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcard from europe italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live arts on the air listen live © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos poland : homophobia spreads with government backing northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live world in progress listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de international relations -pipe- 26.09.2007 western nations " deeply troubled " by myanmar crackdown großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : led by buddhist monks , thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets the european union and united states called for the international community to enact sanctions against myanmar for the deadly crackdown against buddhist monks and other pro-democracy protesters . " we are deeply troubled by reports that security forces have fired on and attacked peaceful demonstrators and arrested many buddhist monks and others , " the us and eu said in a joint statement before a un security council meeting on wednesday , sept .
26 . us secretary of state condoleezza rice met with top eu officials in new york on the sidelines of the un general assembly . " we condemn all violence against peaceful demonstrators and remind the country 's leaders of their personal responsibility for their actions , " the joint statement said .
at least four people were reported to have been killed when security forces clamped down on anti-government protests led by buddhist monks in yangon , the country 's main city . the eu-us statement also called on china , india and members of the association of south east asian nations -lrb- asean -rrb- to press the myanmar government to enter into a dialogue with the opposition . un envoy to return to myanmar bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests began when the government hiked fuel prices un secretary-general ban ki-moon said he was dispatching gambari to the region and called on myanmar 's leaders to cooperate with the envoy 's mission .
it was not immediately clear if gambari would be permitted to enter the asian nation . the eu and the united states have targeted asset freezes and visa bans on some 375 members of the myanmar leadership .
us state department deputy spokesman tom casey said discussions were already underway regarding possible security council sanctions . eu commissioner for external relations benita ferrero-waldner said the eu 's measures could be expanded . " maybe some ban on logging , for instance , because there it seems a lot of money is being made , " she said , according to reuters . sanction split the security council has been split on acting against myanmar .
at the beginning of 2007 , china and russia vetoed a resolution calling for myanmar to enact democratic reforms and put an end to the persecution of minorities and opposition members . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia said it was up to myanmar leaders to find a solution to the situation at a meeting of group of eight foreign ministers ' meeting wednesday , rice clashed with her russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , over the sanctions issues , reuters reported , citing anonymous sources . russian officials have said the events in myanmar an " internal matter " for the country to resolve on its own and it trusted the junta to use restraint . call for dialog washington and brussels called on the ruling myanmar junta to halt the violence against the monks and begin dialog with democratic activists , including leader aung san suu kyi , who has been under house arrest for years and was transferred to jail since the unrest began . riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . the un high commissioner for human rights , louise arbour , said from her headquarters in geneva that the military government should refrain from using force against peaceful demonstrators . " the use of excessive force and all forms of arbitrary detention , of peaceful protesters are strictly prohibited under international law , " she said . dw staff -lrb- sms -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic un security council calls for emergency session www-links send us your opinion do you think the international community should enact sanctions against myanmar ?
send us your comments and please include your full name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live # programtext # listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : compensation for forced laborers dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live popxport - das deutsche musikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : great britain bans the cane dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1959 : the tin drum © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : liberation of dachau © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us companies doing big business in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united states -pipe- 26.09.2007 us companies doing big business in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mcdonald 's recent arrival in berlin 's turkish quarter did n't make everyone happy united states companies continue to invest heavily in germany to the tune of 130 billion euros -lrb- $ 184 billion -rrb- and employ 800,000 people , according to a survey by the american chamber of commerce in germany . oil giant exxonmobil led the list of the 50 top-selling us companies in germany , raking in an estimated 17 billion euros in german sales in 2006 , according to the survey conducted by the american chamber of commerce -lrb- amcham -rrb- in germany .
behind them were well-known brands such as carmakers adam opel , a subsidiary of general motors -lrb- 15.6 billion euros -rrb- and ford -lrb- 15.3 billion euros -rrb- .
general electric -lrb- 9 billion euros -rrb- filled out the top five .
the chamber released its annual figures on wednesday , sept .
26 . most expect increased sales revenues bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us companies invested heavily in german economy the survey , which was conducted before instability hit international financial markets as a result of the us subprime mortgage crisis , showed business was going well for us subsidiaries located in germany .
approximately 80 percent of businesses surveyed by the chamber expected an increase in sales revenues from 2006 compared with 2005 .
before the subprime crisis , germany 's amcham president fred b. irwin said he would 've expected sales increases of between 10 percent and 12 percent for 2007 .
with the market instability irwin said the growth rate is more likely to be 3 percent to 4 percent , irwin told the dpa news agency .
us firms invest more in germany than in any other country , according to the chamber .
" for us firms , germany is an attractive location , " said chamber vice president norbert quinkert . amcham would like to see market reforms bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ford produces some of its models in germany mcdonalds leads the pack as the biggest us employer in germany with 52,000 people working at its offices and franchises .
ford employs 24,000 people and opel 23,726 , according to the chamber .
a strong proponent of free-market capitalism , amcham 's irwin said germany needs to further reform working conditions and working hours to make them more flexible .
he also advocated additional hiring and firing leeway for employers .
the chamber also wants to see germany abolish the minimum wage .
these changes would help the ease the country 's long-term unemployment , irwin said .
the german government " must be aware that it currently sets the course for a sustainable germany in the coming years and decades , " irwin said . the other us companies in the association 's top ten were : ibm -lrb- 8 billion euros -rrb- , philip morris -lrb- 6.9 billion euros -rrb- , conocophillips -lrb- 6.8 billion euros -rrb- , motorola -lrb- 5.8 billion euros -rrb- , hewlett-packard -lrb- 5.9 billion euros -rrb- and proctor & gamble -lrb- 4.8 billion euros -rrb- . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de fifth monthly business slump hints at german slowdown analysts believe that the fall in business confidence in germany for the fifth month in a row in september and the current 18-month low indicate that the euro zone 's biggest economy has hit the brakes .
-lrb- 26.09.2007 -rrb- every third german worker unhappy with job , poll says a new survey on working conditions in germany says every third employee is discontented with his job .
labor unions say the dismal result bolsters their demand for a statutory minimum wage .
-lrb- 16.09.2007 -rrb- eu fails to break deadlock over working time rules eu labor ministers have failed to strike a deal on working-hours legislation and break two years of deadlock that has deeply divided member states .
-lrb- 07.11.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany attracts us companies www-links send us your opinion why do you think germany is an attractive place for us companies to do business ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : ufa established © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2010 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 26.09.2007 europe says " no impunity " for myanmar 's military rulers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : at least three people were reported killed in the violent crackdown on demonstrators european leaders condemned the violent crackdown by myanmar 's military rulers on the largest pro-democracy protests in 20 years and asked the un to consider sanctions against the nation . the military dictatorship in myanmar , formerly known as burma , cracked down on escalating anti-government street protests on wednesday , sept .
26 , with troops firing over the heads of large crowds in yangon , the country 's main city .
two monks and a civilian were killed , according to hospital and monastery sources , reuters reported . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : military troops have taken up positions around the city of yangon riot police fired tear gas at columns of monks trying to push their way past barricades sealing off the shwedagon pagoda , myanmar 's holiest shrine and the starting point of marches that mushroomed from small protests against huge fuel price increases .
angry crowds filled the streets of yangon , defying the military violence meant to curb the biggest anti-government protests in 20 years . yangon 's pagoda area was the scene of the worst bloodshed in a 1988 crackdown on protests in which 3,000 people are thought to have been killed .
myanmar has had 45 years of military rule . " no impunity " for human rights violators the military 's action against violence triggered anger in the west with the us and the european union condemning the violence and asking the un security council to consider sanctions against myanmar .
the security council planned to meet on the myanmar crisis on wednesday . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : two buddhist monks were reported to be among those killed world leaders also called on the junta , as the military dictatorship is known , to exercise restraint .
in a statement after a ministerial meeting on the fringes of the un general assembly , the us and the 27-nation eu called on the military rulers to stop violence and start a dialogue with pro-democracy leaders , including aung san suu kyi , and ethnic groups . british prime minister gordon brown warned that the " age of impunity " in abusing human rights was over and said the eu was going to look at " a whole range of sanctions . "
he also said he hoped the un would send a special envoy to myanmar . " there will be no impunity in future for those who trample the human rights of the people of burma , " brown said , referring to the asian nation by its former name .
" i think everybody knows now that the whole issue of sanctions is going to take on a new dimension . " eu wants tougher sanctions a number of european governments as well as the european union have expressed concern in recent days about the situation in myanmar and warned against any violent repression of pro-democracy protests . france said it must be made clear to all myanmar officials " that they will be held personally responsible for all acts of violence committed against the population . " the german government , which is under pressure from exiled politicians from myanmar to ratchet up the pressure on the generals , has called for real reforms and an inclusive political dialogue in the country . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aung san suu kyi is the icon of the pro-democracy movement in myanmar " we have shocking and worrying reports from myanmar whose comprehensiveness and veracity , however , we could not verify in detail in the cabinet , " deputy government spokesman thomas steg told reporters after a cabinet meeting . " the peaceful protests that have taken place ... had and have our sympathy , " steg added .
" the cabinet said clearly that it expects those in power -lrb- in myanmar -rrb- to shun violence . " germany 's foreign ministry this week also urged an end to the house arrest for the head of the opposition and iconic pro-democracy figure , aung san suu kyi .
" we deeply wish to see her release , " a ministry spokesman said . italian prime minister romano prodi said he will ask the european union to hold an urgent meeting on myanmar to find ways to " halt the violence . " the european union has also threatened to hit the junta with tougher economic sanctions .
the eu first imposed sanctions against the government in myanmar in 1996 .
they include an arms embargo as well as visa bans on the junta .
companies headquartered in the eu are not allowed to give credit to burmese firms . european commission spokesman , amadeu altafaj tardio said the eu was trying to verify reports indicating that military forces had fired shots at demonstrators . " firing warning shots over peaceful demonstrators clearly means a tactic of increased intimidation , " he said during a regular news briefing .
" -lsb- the -rsb- strong demand from the european commission to the authorities to refrain from the use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators .
the citizens and monks , it is important to emphasize , are exercising their undeniable right for freedom of expression and assembly . "
myanmar in world spotlight bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : brown says the junta should n't be allowed to get away with violence referring to the images of thousands of defiant monks and civilians marching on the streets in myanmar on television screens and on the internet in recent days , brown said the junta could not expect to get away with violence . " the whole word is now watching burma and its illegitimate and repressive regime should know that the whole world is going to hold it to account .
the age of impunity in neglecting and overriding human rights is over , " he said . " i think the international pressure that can be made to be felt in the next few days is incredibly important , " he added .
" i want to see the whole of the world getting together on this , each continent of the world can come together . " dw staff -lrb- sp -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : berlin expresses sympathy for protests in myanmar the german federal government has said it welcomes the peaceful protests against the military regime as tens of thousands of buddhist monks and their supporters marched in myanmar .
-lrb- 24.09.2007 -rrb- dw-world : diplomacy needed after dalai lama visit in germany , expert says china has again criticized german chancellor for her meeting with the dalai lama over the weekend .
on tuesday , china said it had damaged ties between the two countries and called on berlin to remedy the situation .
-lrb- 25.09.2007 -rrb- dw-world : merkel meets dalai lama despite chinese criticism german chancellor angela merkel met with the dalai lama on sunday , sept .
23 .
the historic encounter - the first of its kind - drew fierce criticism from chinese officials .
-lrb- 23.09.2007 -rrb- www-links externer link : send us your opinion how should the west react to the violent crackdown on pro-democracy protests in myanmar ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : inspired minds audio : one-to-one with composer christian jost audio : listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
dw-world : machos missing mama dw-world : dithering at davos ?
dw-world : london 's frosty fashion dw-world : the quintessential bulgarian dw-world : the olive harvest dw-world : romanian countryside transformed by eu dw-world : prague - past and present dw-world : an ossie heads west dw-world : romania struggling through the crisis dw-world : the charm of budapest dw-world : greek challenge : tackle corruption dw-world : saying ' adios ' to spain after seven years dw-world : hardly politics as usual dw-world : discovering moldova 's hidden riches europe keep up with the latest in europe .
video : macedonia 's drug city video : belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.01.2010 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de intercultural dialogue -pipe- 26.09.2007 german author barred from reading " satanic verses " in mosque großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " the satanic verses " are considered controversial reading material a maverick german writer has been denied permission to read aloud from salman rushdie 's controversial novel " the satanic verses " inside a cologne mosque .
günter wallraff said he 's not giving up on the idea . wallraff , famous for his undercover investigations , announced in july that he wanted to read the novel at a turkish-speaking mosque in cologne .
the request posed a dilemma for the turkish-islamic union ditib , an ankara-funded religious foundation : if the group members denied wallraff 's request , they would be seen as not being liberal , but granting permission would anger a large number of their members .
ditib officials said they had discussed the proposed reading with wallraff until two weeks ago , but negotiations failed after he refused to compromise .
" he lacks understanding for the feelings and needs of members of our muslim community , " said a spokesman , without specifying what ditib had proposed to wallraff .
novel should be discussed among muslims bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : günter wallraff says the reading would promote dialogue wallraff , a leftist journalist and author , has gone undercover numerous times to expose what he believes are injustices .
for one book , " lowest of the low , " he described the discrimination he faced while posing as a turkish worker in germany .
the book was received positively by germany 's turkish community .
" i have read the book aloud at home to muslims and they actually laughed at parts that did n't mean anything to me .
you can see that this book 's place is in a muslim context , " wallraff said .
wallraff , 64 , said he hoped such a reading would provoke a discussion on intolerance with german muslims in the western german city and set an example for other muslim communities around germany .
wallraff determined to appeal rejection bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nearly 20 years on , rushdie 's book still causes controversy rushdie 's novel enraged many muslims , who felt it was blasphemous in its portrayal of the prophet mohammed .
rushdie was put under police protection in 1989 after the late ayatollah ruhollah khomeini of iran called for him to be killed .
the fatwa has not been lifted , but iran eventually said that it did not need to be enforced .
wallraff is a long-time rushdie supporter and believes the novel is a literary masterpiece .
rushdie stayed in wallraff 's apartment during visits to cologne in the 1990s .
since proposing the reading , wallraff said he 's received anonymous death threats from extremist muslims .
but within the mainstream turkish community , there 's support for the reading , he said .
wallraff said he would travel to ankara this autumn and appeal to ditib officials there to overrule the rejection .
" i do n't give up that easily , " he said . dw staff -lrb- th -rrb- send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : legendary reporter decries " third-world standards " in germany investigative journalist günter wallraff has made history with his exposes about turkish guest workers , tabloid journalism and call centers .
he spoke to dw about moral courage , discrimination and the media .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- dw-world : german author wants to read satanic verses in mosque a german book author said he wants to read aloud inside a cologne mosque from " the satanic verses , " the 1988 novel by salman rushdie that some muslims consider blasphemous and led to a 1989 fatwa against rushdie .
-lrb- 12.07.2007 -rrb- dw-world : debate over new mosque in cologne heats up germany 's turkish islamic union is housed in a dilapidated factory in the ehrenfeld district of cologne .
controversially , the building is now set to be revamped as a mosque .
one critic has even received death threats .
-lrb- 03.06.2007 -rrb- www-links externer link : send us your opinion what do you think of the decision not to allow a reading of salman rushdie 's novel ?
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dw-tv europe live popxport - das deutsche musikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : hits in germany audio : pop from the german top 100 audio : listen live picture gallery haute couture at home bathe in a shoe and sit on toy blocks at the imm cologne furnishings fair .
music researchers say music is good for the brain .
video : the mozart code video : music help kids learn video : secrets of the voice video : origin of written music video : a neurologist on music top ten culture tips dw has selected highlights from the ruhr2010 culture capital program .
picture gallery cultural spotlight tour europe 's three capitals of culture for 2010 : germany 's ruhr region , pecs and istanbul .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
bilder : word of the week weblog outsiders ' insights our student bloggers share their latest adventures in germany .
radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : hits in germany externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : concert hour externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : music this week externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : arts on the air externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : inspired minds externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : living in germany externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : cool - dw for youth news quiz win a prize review recent news stories for a chance to win a prize . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.01.2010 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination dw-world : france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos dw-world : poland : homophobia spreads with government backing dw-world : northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights dw-world : germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : radio d audio : audio : listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination dw-world : france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos dw-world : poland : homophobia spreads with government backing dw-world : northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights dw-world : germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination business -pipe- 26.09.2007 italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : glass has been produced on murano since 1291 despite the weight of tradition and the arduous and dirty nature of glass making , several italian woman are determined to make it in murano ’ s world-renowned glass manufacturing industry . it ’ s just a short ferry trip from venice to the tiny island of murano , where the main streets are filled with showrooms selling everything from vases to chandeliers and ornate sculptures - all made from distinctive murano glass . but it ’ s around the back alleyways that the true murano reveals itself .
it ’ s here , accompanied by the sound of roaring furnaces heated to over 1000 degrees centigrade -lrb- 1800 f -rrb- , that the teams of glass makers shape their creations .
and it ’ s here that italian elena rosso dreams one day of establishing her own foundry . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano 's streets echo with the sound of burning furnaces rosso fell in love with glass the first time she attended a course in her home state of liguria , in italy ’ s north-west .
nine years ago , she decided to move to venice just to learn from the masters on neighboring murano . “ working with glass is not so easy to explain because it ’ s a material you can ’ t touch with your hands , ” rosso said .
“ i form it while the material is a liquid , and then it turns into a solid - it ’ s a sort of magic . ” no female masters according to the consortium promoting murano glassmakers , promovetro , there are some 200 companies based on the island employing around 1000 people .
the consortium has no reliable statistics as to how many of these are women but one thing is for sure .
there has never been a female master glassmaker working in murano . “ it ’ s an extremely arduous job and so it ’ s remained nearly exclusively male , ” explained sergio malara from promovetro . “ every so often a girl turns up who tries it out but usually she doesn ’ t stay the distance because the sculptures can be so extremely heavy and the heat is just incredible – you need to be physically top fit , ” he said . like working in a sauna thirty-five year-old rosso , who doesn ’ t have an ounce of fat on her , admitted that it is hard work in furnaces .
during her first couple of weeks training , she had to take painkillers just to get to sleep at night because her body hurt so much . “ at the first furnace where i worked , i had to carry a heavy pastorale - a sort of long iron spoon with a paddle on top - and it was very , very heavy , ” rosso said .
she then had to put the pastorale in the furnace , which burnt at about 1,000 degrees , and stand there waiting for the glass to melt . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the finished product looks stunning but glass making is hot and heavy work “ it was terrible , ” rosso said with a laugh , “ but i resisted and made my muscles stronger because otherwise they would have needed another person . ” but as rosso pointed out , not all males are capable of lifting some of the bigger pieces either .
it ’ s also possible to use lighter-weight tools rather than the more traditional equipment that at murano hasn ’ t really changed since medieval times . according to rosso , it ’ s tradition that is to blame for the lack of women in murano ’ s furnaces rather than lack of muscles . “ the masters are older people , and they are very traditional , ” she said . “ they don ’ t believe that a woman can do these things .
i think abroad you have more opportunity ; i trained in london and there were women there working like normal .
here it is a scandal . ” bead-making attracts more women elena is one of the very few females working in the island ’ s foundries ; however , there are several more women who create traditional murano beads . one of them is twenty-eight year old barbara proverbio , who started her own company , bp , on murano two years ago .
she originally moved to venice to study architecture , but became inspired by murano ’ s artisans . using a technique called lampworking - where each bead is made individually over a hot flame , proverbio produces glass bracelets , necklaces and fantasy creations mainly for the fashion industry . proverbio said she wouldn ’ t want to work anywhere else despite murano being " a bit closed when it comes to women " and " a bit rough " , because it has a magic all of its own .
for proverbio , there is also the desire to make it in one of the world ’ s most famous glassmaking centers . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : murano is a beautiful place to work “ the moment in which you decide to dedicate yourself to glassmaking , maybe you should dare to do it at murano out of respect for the tradition , ” she said . making beads isn ’ t as hot and sweaty as in the furnaces , but it still involves heat , burns , and wearing distinctly unsexy safety glasses .
it ’ s also extremely fiddly work - proverbio can spend up to 45 minutes make a single bead . this means she has plenty of time to think about what advice she would give those who aren ’ t sure about breaking gender stereotypes and working in non-traditional industries . “ there isn ’ t such a thing as man ’ s work , or woman ’ s work , ” she said . “ i think , there is only your work - i mean , a job that is your calling .
if you love your work , then it it ’ s unimportant if you are male or female . kate hairsine send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : " the masters do n't believe that women can do these things . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : newslink audio : audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.01.2010 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination dw-world : france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos dw-world : italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry dw-world : northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights dw-world : poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : inside europe audio : audio : listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.09.2007 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : celebrating diversity and fighting discrimination dw-world : france : elite model agency recruits from paris ghettos dw-world : italy : female glassmakers crack a traditional male industry dw-world : northern ireland : irish speakers push for language rights dw-world : poland : homophobia spreads with government backing religion -pipe- 26.09.2007 germany : scientologists complain of state-sanctioned discrimination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some say scientology is a religion , others argue it is a cult scientology has always been controversial , but in germany , it 's viewed with more suspicion than in many other places .
according to scientologists , the result has been discrimination against its church and members . in germany , there are thought to be some 6,000 adherents of the church of scientology , which was created in the 1950s by american science-fiction writer l. ron hubbard . the german government considers the group to be a money-making enterprise that preys on vulnerable people , and ten years ago even discussed designating the group as unconstitutional . sabine weber , the president of the scientology church in berlin , said a campaign of misinformation led by government officials and mainstream churches has led to a widespread distrust of the group . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scientologists celebrated the opening of their new center in berlin earlier this year “ we are involved here in a kind of religious war , ” she said .
“ it 's not a war with weapons like in earlier times , but it 's -lrb- a war -rrb- of opinions and thoughts . ” according to weber , individual scientologists are continually “ confronted with prejudice ” , which makes is difficult for them to lead a normal life in germany . this can run from difficulties in organizing meetings , opening a bank account or building business relationships , weber said . government observation the relationship between scientology and germany hit a low point in the mid-1990s , when according to weber , bomb threats , broken windows and harassment were common . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tom cruise was denied permission to film in a part of berlin because of his beliefs during that period , the government put the group under intense surveillance .
scientology hit back by running newspaper ads comparing their treatment to that of jews under hitler ’ s nazi regime . things have calmed down since then , but the group is still under observation .
a us state department report released in september noted concerns about the treatment of scientologists in germany - especially after a recent high-profile spat . a film being produced in germany starring tom cruise about the plot by german officers to kill hitler was initially refused permission to shoot in a historic location , because cruise is a well-known scientologist . “ i was really shocked that , especially in connection with such a movie and especially in germany , politicians still think someone shouldn ’ t play such a role or get permission due to religious beliefs , ” weber said . just a cover-up ? scientology critics believe these discrimination arguments are just a smoke screen to cover the group ’ s strategy of controlling the lives of their members and bleeding them dry financially . larry brennan , who belonged to the church of scientology in the united states for 27 years , considers himself to be one of the group 's victims .
he paid the group more than 283,000 euro -lrb- $ 400,000 -rrb- to reach the church 's second highest spiritual level . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ursula caberta has spoken out strongly for a scientology ban during a visit to berlin to meet with ursula caberta , scientology 's leading opponent in germany , brennan said he “ couldn ’ t figure out how to get out . ” “ my family was in and if i got out , i would have been disconnected from my family , ” he said .
" also for a time i was working for a scientology-run company .
if i got out they would have had to fire me . ” caberta , who heads the scientology task force in the hamburg state government , recently called for a ban on the group after two children of a high-ranking scientologist fled their home for fear they would be sent to one of the church ’ s camps . all-controlling church according to caberta , scientologists are dangerous because they don ’ t allow “ human rights ” or “ religious freedom ” . “ there is only one way : scientology .
and anyone who deviates from that is punished , ” she said .
“ in germany we are familiar with these kinds of ideologies and perhaps that 's why we 're more sensitive about them . ” bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protesters in front of the berlin scientology center hold a sign reading , " brainwashing , no thanks ! " some scientology tenets strike many as odd , such as the group ’ s campaign against psychiatry , or its belief that the source of much human misery today are the spirits of murdered aliens brought to earth 75 million years ago . to berlin scientology president sabine weber , new beliefs and new religious movements should not be met with prejudice . but former scientologist larry brennan doesn ’ t believe the german government is against scientology because it was " different ” but rather " because of what the group does " . and according to brennan , what scientologists do is destructive and should be exposed . kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic audio : " we 're involved here in a kind of religious war . "
download inside europe 's report .
feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . picture of the day dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dossier equality for all inside europe 's series examines issues during the european year of equal opportunities for all .
dw-tv europe live journal - with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting dw-radio live audio : newslink audio : audio : listen live © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs bbc news / uk politics graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said . "
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair " alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it " norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend related internet links labour party conference john pienaar 's five live blog the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now most shared most read huge rival rallies in tense yemen wikileaks ' helped arab uprisings ' is bradley manning being punished before trial ?
the bizarre world of time zones making content do the talking most popular now , in detail most shared most read protests resume in syrian cities live : libya crisis japan inquiry into nuclear leak nato control on libya ' days away ' the bizarre world of time zones burma earthquake death toll rises ' second victim ' missing for years tools ' demand new american story ' australia army in afghan race row zimbabwe mdc minister ' in hiding ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 114,814 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 54,600 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories brown ' not warned over bullying ' mps to ponder summer holiday cut mps label broadband tax ' unfair ' most popular stories now most shared most read man in hiding betrayed by pet dog first superman comic sold for $ 1m human cost of mining in dr congo one-minute world news chinese police film drunk driver most popular now , in detail most shared most read ex-us vice president cheney ill obama unveils new healthcare plan us freezer bodies woman convicted man in hiding betrayed by pet dog car bomb explodes at courthouse first superman comic sold for $ 1m tv man gave up dead lover 's name us ' closes in on google hackers ' guilty plea in new york bomb plot odeon confirms wonderland boycott most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images madeira clean-up unceasing efforts eradicate flood damage most popular now most popular now -pipe- 23,586 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 2,886 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now most shared most read protein in brain linked to autism i was in hitler 's suicide bunker japan warns on quake deaths rise super moon : your pictures french jets resume libya sorties most popular now , in detail most shared most read us ' will hand over ' libya command live : libya crisis japan warns on quake deaths rise bahrain and iran expel diplomats whale ' lands on couple 's yacht ' super moon : your pictures i was in hitler 's suicide bunker live : japan earthquake in pictures : western nations attack libya obama praises brazilian democracy most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 49,357 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 10,400 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now most shared most read drug ' may reverse liver disease ' zambia pushes for connected future most popular now , in detail most shared most read eta rebels call ' permanent truce ' german cities flooded after thaw us mourns arizona shooting dead how giffords survived the shot police criticised for ' native ' pc virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims iran makes nuclear death arrests flash floods hit queensland city can the tone deaf learn to sing ?
most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 154,500 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 74,571 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories dup in pledge over power-sharing tories ponder army 's german role police urged to visit all victims most popular stories now most shared most read chavez hails ' carlos the jackal ' childhood abuse ' quickens ageing ' introducing : all you need to know alcohol ' protects men 's hearts ' bare barbies in knickerless cage most popular now , in detail most shared most read chavez hails ' carlos the jackal ' knox prosecutors seek life term bare barbies in knickerless cage senate healthcare vote ' assured ' french hand-wringing over dubious win egypt leader enters football row teenager ' stabbed and run over ' mumbai suspects arrested in italy second separated twin out of coma fish ' at risk ' in acidified ocean most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis hand-wringing french angst after dubious football win over ireland tough lessons why obama is finding mid-east peace a struggle enabling rhythms congo band shines despite disability and poverty most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,171 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 21,529 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now most shared most read sleeping well ' helps weight loss ' israeli law to revoke citizenship china ' to overtake us on science ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read japan sea radioactivity ' rises ' obama not ruling out libya arms australian dollar at 29-year high hague hints at exile for gaddafi facebook removes ' intifada ' page how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
inquiry into ' fake bomb ' flight royal weddings : a brief history sleeping well ' helps weight loss ' marking 30 years since reagan shooting most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme track star the canadian breaking records in her nineties saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 26,071 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 12,071 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories ex-ministers demand brown ballot live : call for ballot on brown carey in immigrant ' values ' call most popular stories now most shared most read is this the world 's smartest dog ?
err on a g-spot pi calculated to ' record number ' in pictures : building the dubai tower condoms ' too big ' for indian men most popular now , in detail most shared most read snow brings disruption in europe japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat pornographic videos flood youtube err on a g-spot ex-ministers demand brown ballot pi calculated to ' record number ' snow disrupts schools and travel obama given intelligence pledge in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland ' flaws ' in key lockerbie evidence most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis guantanamo blues problems mount for us president 's plans to close camp in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland in the zone are women the big losers in the quest to find the g-spot ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 89,157 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 40,886 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- johnson promises ' personal ' nhs home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:08 gmt 05:08 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version johnson promises ' personal ' nhs mr johnson said the nhs should be more convenient for patients johnson speech health secretary alan johnson has set out plans intended to make the nhs more user-friendly for patients in england , in his labour conference speech .
he said patients should be treated close to home and gp surgeries should open " at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice " .
he also outlined plans to tackle health inequalities and boost the fight against hospital infections .
health is expected to be a key battleground at the next election .
speculation that prime minister gordon brown may call an autumn poll has grown after his leader 's speech on monday .
proud record mr brown did not refer to the election talk during his speech , but in a series of media interviews , he refused to rule out calling an early election .
in his speech , mr johnson criticised the conservatives , saying at worst they were a " major risk " to the nhs and were " unfit to govern " .
mr johnson said labour had a " proud record " of increasing investment , staff and survival rates in the nhs - but now wanted to move away from " top-down structural change " to concentrate on better patient care .
also at conference policy seminars : britain and the world , health , education alan johnson speech q & a david miliband speech q & a : des browne and douglas alexander john hutton speech peter hain speech conference at-a-glance speech in full analysis : gp battle looming ?
the government would reshape the nhs in england to become " clinically led and locally driven " and trying to treat patients close to home where possible .
" gp surgeries should be open at times and in locations that suit the patient , not the practice , " he told conference delegates .
" pharmacies , sports centres and high street walk-in centres can do much more to provide primary care effectively and conveniently . "
earlier , he told the bbc he did not want a " confrontational approach " with gps and hoped to work with them to develop a " much more convenient service " for patients .
childhood obesity in his speech he said it was " unacceptable " that people in poor areas were likely to die younger than those in richer areas .
more gp surgeries were needed in deprived areas to help tackle health inequalities , he said , and to work , not just on curing illness - but on prevention measures .
after the smoking ban , faster progress was needed on tackling obesity in children and adults , he said .
nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair alan johnson and he said he wanted a regulator to tackle hygiene standards in nhs and private hospitals - with the power to investigate and close down wards where standards were not being met .
" too many patients feel insecure in hospital because of their fear of infection , " said mr johnson .
he said progress had been made on tackling mrsa but said the battle against clostridium difficile " must be intensified " .
matrons ' empowered ' matrons and nurses will be empowered to " use their expertise to fight infection on the front line , " he said .
mr johnson also said " too many " hospital staff were suffering intimidation and violence at work , and pledged personal safety alarms for those who needed them and better training on handling aggressive patients .
but on the controversial issue of public sector pay , he acknowledged in a question and answer session later : " nothing i say here will convince anyone in the health service that the staged pay increase was fair . "
the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it norman lamb lib dems but he added : " i would hope people would put that in the context of what we have tried to do on pay and conditions for the past 10 years . "
shadow health secretary andrew lansley said labour had presided over " ten years of missed opportunities and contradictory reforms " and dismissed his announcements as " delayed , diluted and duplicated " .
" up and down the country people are campaigning to keep their local maternity and accident and emergency units open , " he said .
" conservatives will fight to save district general hospitals while labour continue their reviews to end them . "
liberal democrat health spokesman norman lamb dismissed mr johnson 's speech as " gimmickry and re-spun policy " .
" he has failed to answer the fundamental question of where gordon brown is taking the nhs .
" the health secretary has not explained how more personalised care will be delivered or what the role of the private sector will be in delivering it . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
party conferences 2007 latest news i wo n't let you down , says brown in full : gordon brown 's speech we must learn lessons - miliband ' mistakes ' made over 7/7 reaction terror detention ' to be extended ' johnson promises ' personal ' nhs straw : review self-defence law tories still nasty , says harman at-a-glance : labour conference analysis what now gordon ?
conference success leaves brown facing a dilemma over when to call an election brown 's personal pitch a new world view ?
profile : harriet harman gordon melts mariella viewpoints delegates on a snap election labour views on eu referendum do labour members miss blair ?
your views on snap election watch / listen tory conference andrew neil interviews darling 's speech related bbc links john pienaar 's five live blog related internet links labour party conference the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk politics stories prison ' not linked ' to crime drop whitehall ' supported guantanamo ' government wins vat commons votes most popular stories now most shared most read transocean executives get bonuses obama condemns afghan killings seabed tidal power trial approved paternity leave rules take effect most popular now , in detail most shared most read fukushima workers ' bodies found abidjan in grip of fierce battle obama condemns afghan killings thousands are missing in mexico transocean executives get bonuses us jets grounded after hole scare un gaza report ' should be buried ' emirates ship freed from pirates fatal blast ' a tragedy ' for omagh joy and desolation after cricket final most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 78,357 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 25,729 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries bbc news / asia-pacific graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk burma troops surround monasteries truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend related internet links burmese government bbc burmese service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories obama urges burma to free suu kyi burma 's suu kyi in diplomat talks suu kyi detention appeal rejected anger greets suu kyi conviction aung san suu kyi burma conundrum how do you pressure the military junta ?
timeline : aung san suu kyi trial suu kyi : a life in pictures overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military profile : the ' intruder ' features junta 's motives is the release of john yettaw just tactics ?
un chief 's big gamble in pictures : burma 's tunnel network cyclone nargis : one year on did the cyclone change burma 's junta ?
video suu kyi on life under house arrest profile : aung san suu kyi background burma 's hardline generals burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories martial law in philippine province thai king gives birthday audience ' kangaroo smuggler ' held in java most popular stories now most shared most read un hits back at climate sceptics crowds turn out for jara funeral racist abuse feared at italy tie more than just a pretty interface an animated journey through the earth 's climate history most popular now , in detail most shared most read ' parmalat founder 's art ' seized russia to mourn club fire victims ' stripping ' teacher reprimanded un hits back at climate sceptics verdict ' pleases ' kercher family in pictures : russian nightclub fire ' no smoking gun ' evidence in kercher case guinea vice-president takes helm ' kangaroo smuggler ' held in java crowds turn out for jara funeral most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis down to the wire richard black on the countdown to copenhagen ' no smoking gun ' writer graham johnson on the kercher case bone-crunching bolivia 's election battle played out in wrestling ring most popular now most popular now -pipe- 37,671 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 22,057 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories burma pm ' applies to form party ' deadly blasts hit rangoon suu kyi party to boycott election un urges burma poll credibility burma annuls suu kyi poll victory burma election laws a ' setback ' burma frees nld leader tin oo features and analysis hints of change mixed messages from burma 's military leaders how to apply pressure ?
in search of a rebel leader burma 's junta unlikely to buckle overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military video aung san suu kyi archive : suu kyi on life under arrest background generals at the heart of the junta burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi suu kyi : a life in pictures profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites most popular stories now most shared most read nigeria country profile south africa country profile most popular now , in detail most shared most read renault warns of threat to assets global spam levels suddenly fall pentagon budget to get $ 78bn cut furore over ' censored ' huck finn homeless man with radio voice given second chance china stealth plane ' years away ' ivory coast : ' send in commandos ' day in pictures : 6 january 2011 swedish bird deaths are explained hackers uncover secret ps3 keys most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 79,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 29,971 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories obama urges burma to free suu kyi burma 's suu kyi in diplomat talks suu kyi detention appeal rejected anger greets suu kyi conviction features and analysis burma conundrum how do you pressure the military junta ?
burma 's junta unlikely to buckle un chief gambles on breakthrough overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military in pictures : burma 's tunnel network video suu kyi on life under house arrest profile : aung san suu kyi background burma 's hardline generals burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi suu kyi : a life in pictures profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories china economy sees strong growth more relocations for three gorges jailbreak costs png minister job most popular stories now most shared most read wildlife photo stripped of award web 's inventor unveils data site banksy film to debut at sundance trials spark hope of pill for ms training scheme was ' mismanaged ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read wildlife photo stripped of award mother killed son out of ' love ' china economy sees strong growth eight bafta nods for an education web 's inventor unveils data site air france may bar obese people mammals ' floated to madagascar ' banksy film to debut at sundance obama warns senate on healthcare trials spark hope of pill for ms most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis obama 's woes mark mardell on the aftermath of defeat for the democrats patronage politics philippine massacre exposes political underworld motive of ' love ' why did a mother inject her son with a fatal overdose ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 66,457 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 42,914 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories burma pm ' applies to form party ' deadly blasts hit rangoon suu kyi party to boycott election un urges burma poll credibility burma annuls suu kyi poll victory burma election laws a ' setback ' burma frees nld leader tin oo features and analysis hints of change mixed messages from burma 's military leaders how to apply pressure ?
in search of a rebel leader burma 's junta unlikely to buckle overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military video aung san suu kyi archive : suu kyi on life under arrest background generals at the heart of the junta burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi suu kyi : a life in pictures profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now most shared most read ireland country profile most popular now , in detail most shared most read live : chile mine rescue chile mine rescue reaches endgame porn studios close over hiv scare china elders in free speech plea pentagon warns on us gay ruling the big picture : lightning strike in pictures : first chile miners rescued new nose for taliban victim aisha germans break silence over immigration asteroid pile-up makes a picture most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 44,543 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 17,971 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories burma pm ' applies to form party ' deadly blasts hit rangoon suu kyi party to boycott election un urges burma poll credibility burma annuls suu kyi poll victory burma election laws a ' setback ' burma frees nld leader tin oo features and analysis hints of change mixed messages from burma 's military leaders how to apply pressure ?
in search of a rebel leader burma 's junta unlikely to buckle overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military video aung san suu kyi archive : suu kyi on life under arrest background generals at the heart of the junta burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi suu kyi : a life in pictures profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now most shared most read nz judge orders ' odd ' name change nz couple to name child superman most popular now , in detail most shared most read pakistan floods ' hit 14m people ' boy named hitler to stay in care mandela aide ' got campbell gems ' dead babies found in dutch attic china media ' vulgar and kitsch ' moscow under smog health warning reykjavik 's mayor appears in drag afghan girl to have nose rebuilt mother faces deaths prosecution the price of being single most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 50,100 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 16,957 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- burma troops surround monasteries home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 04:53 gmt 05:53 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version burma troops surround monasteries after more than a week of protests , the military is taking action truckloads of soldiers and riot police have surrounded a number of monasteries in burma 's largest city , rangoon , to try to prevent a ninth day of protests .
but groups of people are massing on the streets , apparently to prepare for more demonstrations - despite a ban on gatherings of more than five people .
in another sign of increased tensions , two key dissidents have been arrested .
analysts fear a repeat of the violence in 1988 , when troops opened fire on unarmed protestors , killing thousands .
violence fear earlier on wednesday , the first night of a dusk-to-dawn curfew passed peacefully in rangoon and the northern city of mandalay .
but as dawn broke , news emerged of the arrests of two well-known opponents of the regime : u win naing , a 70-year-old veteran independent politician , and zanagar , a popular burmese film comedian .
as the morning wore on , large numbers of soldiers with water cannon reportedly surrounded the shwedagon pagoda , the holiest site in the city .
armed troops have been seen deployed in other parts of the city as well , including the sule pagoda , one of the main centres of the monks ' protest marches in the past few days .
tuesday 's protests 1 .
shwedagon pagoda .
tens of thousands of protesters , led by monks , gathered for the march 2 .
sule pagoda .
students joined the protest , passing by city hall burma government view state tv has repeated warnings to burma 's people not to join the demonstrations , and to the buddhist monks not to meddle in politics .
but monks led tens of thousands of people through rangoon and other towns on tuesday for an eighth day of protests , calling for democracy and an end to military repression .
joining them were workers , actors and politicians from the opposition national league for democracy party led by aung san suu kyi , who remains under house arrest .
some chanted " we want dialogue " while others simply shouted " democracy , democracy " .
people were also carrying flags , including some bearing the image of a fighting peacock used by students during the 1988 pro-democracy uprising , witnesses say .
the young monks leading this movement have vowed to keep up their protests , but our correspondent says that now looks certain to put them on a collision course with the army .
restraint urged the junta , which repressed the 1988 protests by killing some 3,000 people , finally broke its silence over the mounting protests late on monday , saying it was ready to " take action " .
protests mount 15 aug : junta doubles fuel prices , sparking protests 5 sept : troops injure several monks at a protest in pakokku 17 sept : the junta 's failure to apologise for the injuries draws fresh protests by monks 18-21 sept : daily marches by monks in burmese cities gradually gather in size 22 sept : 1,000 monks march to the home of aung san suu kyi in rangoon 23 sept : up to 20,000 march in rangoon 24 sept : new rangoon march draws at least 50,000 and 24 other towns join in in pictures : protests q & a : protests in burma press reaction send us your comments speaking at the un general assembly in new york , secretary general ban ki-moon urged burma 's military to show restraint in the face of the rising tide of protests .
president bush announced a tightening of existing us economic sanctions against the military regime there .
the us has already imposed an arms ban on burma , a ban on all exports , a ban on new investment and a ban on financial services .
earlier , close ally china called for stability and the eu also urged the junta to show restraint and launch a process of real political reform .
the protests were triggered by the government 's decision to double the price of fuel last month , hitting people hard in the impoverished nation .
are you in burma ?
how have you been affected by the current situation ?
what is the mood like in the country ?
send us your comments and experiences .
you can send pictures and video to : yourpics @ bbc.co.uk or to send via mms please dial + 447725100100 .
if you have a large file you can upload here .
read the terms and conditions at no time should you endanger yourself or others , take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws .
name your e-mail address town & country phone number -lrb- optional -rrb- : comments the bbc may edit your comments and not all emails will be published .
your comments may be published on any bbc media worldwide .
terms & conditions e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
burma : battle for democracy key stories burma pm ' applies to form party ' deadly blasts hit rangoon suu kyi party to boycott election un urges burma poll credibility burma annuls suu kyi poll victory burma election laws a ' setback ' burma frees nld leader tin oo features and analysis hints of change mixed messages from burma 's military leaders how to apply pressure ?
in search of a rebel leader burma 's junta unlikely to buckle overview of burma sanctions choices facing burma 's military video aung san suu kyi archive : suu kyi on life under arrest background generals at the heart of the junta burma v myanmar profile : aung san suu kyi suu kyi : a life in pictures profile : 88 generation related bbc links bbc burmese service related internet links burmese government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now most shared most read enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout hungary country profile most popular now , in detail most shared most read enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' ice island breaks from greenland ' medics ' killed in afghanistan adultery case woman attacks iran n zealand beating ' was a dance ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout fidel castro delivers rare speech shot uk medical worker identified woman shown her own rape on phone pakistan on flooding ' red alert ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 45,314 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 14,329 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools bbc news / northern ireland graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk classroom helpers picket schools classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated . "
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking " caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : school helpers will go on strike -lrb- 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland -rrb- ' no progress ' in classroom talks -lrb- 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland -rrb- ni classroom assistants to strike -lrb- 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland -rrb- classroom assistants will strike -lrb- 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland -rrb- related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories uda set to confirm weapons dumped mp faces copyright breach claims further warning over icy weather most popular stories now most shared most read snow disrupts schools and travel bbc news - in pictures : uk ' deep freeze ' spreads pornographic videos flood youtube japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat cancer survivors ' face neglect ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read snow disrupts schools and travel pornographic videos flood youtube japan whalers ' ram ' activist boat australia downplays india warning obama given intelligence pledge china sued by us software company in pictures : bird 's nest winter wonderland explosive planted in airport test google phone to protect ad empire plate weighing ' can curb obesity ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis failing state is it possible to prevent chaos in yemen ?
in pictures beijing 's bird 's nest stadium turned into winter wonderland major blow cia ' triple agent ' killing embarrases us and jordan most popular now most popular now -pipe- 99,657 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 39,300 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories woman is killed in car accident two still held over teen 's death four taken to hospital after fire most popular stories now most shared most read when doing nothing is an option mass cannibalism clues uncovered in pictures : frankfurt market ' 09 nz man ' injected wife with hiv ' science explained : greenhouse effect in a bottle most popular now , in detail most shared most read mass cannibalism clues uncovered queen issues warning to paparazzi no bin laden reports ' in years ' nz man ' injected wife with hiv ' when doing nothing is an option husband arrested after body find church rift flares after gay vote celebrity winner faces rat charge ' stripping ' teacher reprimanded japan 's hotels woo train spotters most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis climate views what are the arguments made by climate sceptics ?
in pictures martial law crackdown in philippines ' south money woes what nicolas cage and dubai world have in common most popular now most popular now -pipe- 74,957 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 48,857 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories lorry fires closes m1 motorway assault ' sectarian hate crime ' book of condolence for gerry ryan most popular stories now most shared most read weather hampers us oil clean-up california quake report withdrawn fat americans a ' security threat ' plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' answers sought on trawler tragedy most popular now , in detail most shared most read weather hampers us oil clean-up hundreds strip off in lowry shoot plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' fat americans a ' security threat ' in pictures : may day rallies escort girl claims cast cloud over french football protesters confront greek police rwandan leader snubs us lawsuit ' bigot ' row woman will not vote pope to overhaul abuse-hit order most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 55,429 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 47,157 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now most shared most read zambia pushes for connected future brazil 's chinese bikini problem timeline : guatemala most popular now , in detail most shared most read brazil 's chinese bikini problem shot us politician ' doing well ' how giffords survived the shot beckhams expecting fourth child rihanna makes history in uk chart pm attacks ' murky ' football world iran plane crashes ' killing 70 ' gates expresses chinese concern seychelles haven of the giant tortoise south sudan votes on independence most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 60,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmxi most popular now -pipe- 23,843 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now most shared most read curry spice ' kills cancer cells ' ivory coast : ' a million ' refugees parents ' do n't recognise obesity ' laos hit by powerful earthquake most popular now , in detail most shared most read libyan leader ' arming volunteers ' us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case defecating dog sparks us shootout the muammar gaddafi story radioactive levels rise by plant us priests in sex abuse pay-out harper canadian government falls india pm makes world cup overture the bizarre world of time zones mid-east crisis as it happened : 25 march most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 21,129 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 8,200 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories man held over ' rape ' at town bar dodds demands mcguinness apology brothers deny murder bid charge most popular stories now most shared most read palm oil products and the weekly shop man in hiding betrayed by pet dog frog reveals secret of monogamy singing ' rewires ' damaged brain topless tobogganing in germany most popular now , in detail most shared most read obama unveils new healthcare plan man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott guilty plea in new york bomb plot day in pictures tv man gave up dead lover 's name threat from e-waste ' mountains ' swiss man surrenders to libyans us-led advance in marjah ' steady ' bullying charity faces complaints most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues went on strike most popular now most popular now -pipe- 66,929 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 4,171 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now most shared most read how earthquakes happen veterans recall fateful balkan airlift philippine massacre exposes political underworld most popular now , in detail most shared most read church defiant over koran stunt good dancing link to male health philippines massacre trial opens afghan dancing boys sexually abused stansted train time poster banned nasa 's health tip to chile miners us college offers zombie studies house giant faces administration vodafone makes $ 6.5bn china sale powerful tremor rattles nz city most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 83,186 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 22,929 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now most shared most read going to harvard from your own bedroom missile destroys gaddafi building libya 's rivals : the military balance early-warning diabetes test hope most popular now , in detail most shared most read middle east protests : country by country slow progress at japan reactors meltdown alert at japan reactor gaddafi ' not targeted ' by strikes crisis damage to cut japan growth foreign plot foiled , says bahrain famous first lines from technology man seen being ' put in car boot ' missile destroys gaddafi building most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 91,971 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 27,029 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- classroom helpers picket schools home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:35 gmt 06:35 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version classroom helpers picket schools protestors plan to hold another three-day strike next month classroom assistants in northern ireland have picketed outside schools as part of one-day strike action .
the dispute centres on pay and re-grading , and has been going on for 12 years without resolution .
unions and employers representatives had been upbeat following last-minute talks on tuesday , but the strike nevertheless went ahead .
most special schools did not open , while a number of mainstream schools had to close at lunchtime .
some parents of pupils with special needs kept their children at home .
another three-day strike is planned for october .
the department of education has denied that any classroom assistant will lose out in the job evaluation scheme which is being negotiated .
this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking caitriona ruane education minister all staff have been told they will not lose any pay or pension as long as they remain in their current jobs .
unison , which represents 2,500 classroom assistants , said although this statement was correct , the real issue was how the deal would affect those who apply for the jobs in the future .
it said some current staff would get pay rises back-dated 12 years but others would not get increases .
following tuesday 's talks , ms ruane said she was " pleased that progress has been made towards resolving this dispute and recognising the invaluable work that classroom assistants perform for our children " .
" this is a time for moving forward , and i am convinced this dispute can be resolved through dialogue that explores new and creative thinking , " she said .
" further meetings are planned for coming days and by sticking at this we can achieve a positive outcome . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news why the assistants have gone on strike see also school helpers will go on strike 25 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ' no progress ' in classroom talks 24 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland ni classroom assistants to strike 20 sep 07 -pipe- northern ireland classroom assistants will strike 13 apr 05 -pipe- northern ireland related internet links department of education nipsa the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top northern ireland stories two in court over twelfth riots major arrests promised over riots riot tactics defended by police most popular stories now most shared most read how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
missing nyc cobra now ' tweeting ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read japan to scrap stricken reactors gaddafi forces push rebels back bbc website crashes for an hour live : libya and mid-east crisis ivorian fighters head to capital syrians await president 's address containing fukushima water leak ' urgent ' jordan in christian relics row missing nyc cobra now ' tweeting ' berlusconi visits migrant island most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 197,186 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 191,814 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- braille is put on the menu at pub home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help bbc news in video and audio news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 05:46 gmt 06:46 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version braille is put on the menu at pub richard jones hopes to improve access for all disabled people helping a pub put its menu into braille is among the changes a new company has brought about to help improve facilities for disabled people .
richard jones , who is a wheelchair user , has launched accessible wales to ensure places like cafes , shops and churches can be used by everyone .
the 26-year-old from aberdare is advising businesses in the cynon valley to make changes for the better .
he says hirwaun 's glancynon inn is one of the few welsh pubs using braille .
mr jones , who has brittle bones , set up the consultancy business after campaigning for years for better awareness of disabled people and their rights .
" i think most people with disabilities have experienced discrimination , " said mr jones , whose company is based at navigation house , abercynon , and currently has two support staff .
ignorance " i have experienced discrimination with access issues .
the biggest thing i 've had was steps to get into a disabled toilet .
" most people -lsb- who run businesses -rsb- are aware of the disability discrimination act but are not aware of what it means to individual people on the street or in a restaurant .
" accessible wales can audit premises and advise if they need to carry out changes . "
mr jones has been fighting for disability rights ever since he and his parents had to campaign for him to attend his local secondary school .
his company has been running since february but will officially launch on wednesday at the glancynon inn .
following work with mr jones , the pub has added disabled toilets and parking bays , along with the menus for visually impaired people .
alun evans , landlord of the pub , said : " my father was a wheelchair user and the number of places i could take him was limited .
" this is why i felt it was important to create a facility which was accessible to people with and without disabilities . "
richard jones says simple changes can help improve disabled facilities accessible wales has been commissioned by rhondda cynon taf council to advise with regeneration work in mountain ash town centre .
it is also helping the cynon valley museum in aberdare , along with the ymca and providence baptist church in mountain ash .
the disability discrimination act 1995 aims to end the discrimination that many disabled people face .
but mr jones believes a lot of companies are still not complying with the legislation .
" i think it 's an ignorance thing , " he said .
" people do n't realise that they do n't need to go ripping up their buildings .
it could simply be a case of widening a door .
" as a nation we should be positively encouraging people to make these changes .
" i hope it will improve the quality of life for disabled people .
but i also think improving access would improve society in general - for parents with prams and older people , for example . "
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
south east wales find out more about what is going on across the region see also disabled access concern in town 31 oct 06 -pipe- mid wales disability law - who is covered ? 05 oct 06 -pipe- health anger over disabled parking abuse 08 aug 07 -pipe- wales related bbc links disability discrimination act related internet links accessible wales government disability website disability rights commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories man ' threw toddler against wall ' venue tours for sight impaired dizaei accused of assault in jail most popular stories now most shared most read enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout hungary country profile tongue stud ' brain fatality risk ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' ' medics ' killed in afghanistan ice island breaks from greenland fidel castro delivers rare speech adultery case woman attacks iran n zealand beating ' was a dance ' shot uk medical worker identified saudi blackberry deal ' in sight ' zardari ends uk visit with rally pakistan on flooding ' red alert ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 95,114 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 21,914 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories object thrown at railway worker police escort for wedding guests disabled welcomed after hq revamp most popular stories now most shared most read taliban targets : women , children , foreigners india country profile housing market sees spring bounce , estate agents say most popular now , in detail most shared most read spectators killed at us car race ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam in florida japan cabinet shuns wwii shrine taliban targets : women , children , foreigners in pictures : zurich 's dance parade un urges speedy aid for pakistan childhood stress ' causes illness ' lebanon ' kills militant leader ' russia ban on grain export begins celebrations as princess turns 60 most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 38,100 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 17,771 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories cannabis factory is found in unit maternity unit tour posted on web whiskers studied in mink survey most popular stories now most shared most read music therapy for tinnitus hope iran arrests opposition figures mushroom drug cancer secret probe china opens ' women only ' car park final pleas for death row briton most popular now , in detail most shared most read deadline passes for china briton us vows to hunt down jet plotters us man ' arrested ' in north korea china executions shrouded in secrecy avatar tops christmas box office gay couple marries in argentina music therapy for tinnitus hope how are air travellers screened ?
tech changes ' outstrip ' netbooks deadly clashes in north nigeria most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis pain and fear pakistanis describe terror of year of attacks death sentence the secretive system of state executions in china biswas on india stability , cheap cars and cricket - 2009 in review most popular now most popular now -pipe- 22,257 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 6,057 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories support cuts ' could save ' police detonation of plymouth wwii bomb four arrests after body discovery most popular stories now most shared most read how far can a 100-word vocabulary get you ?
bahrain hospital on the front line most popular now , in detail most shared most read libya foreign minister ' defects ' japan to scrap stricken reactors ivorian fighters ' take capital ' the korean american success story libya and mid-east crisis as it happened : wednesday thailand battles southern floods royal weddings of the past brazil joins bolivia drug fight britons stranded in thai floods syria vows to defeat ' plotters ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis american dream inspirations which drove generations of immigrants meeting bumbum playful filipino nicknames that do not always flatter quiet revolution saudi women taking small rebellious steps most popular now most popular now -pipe- 78,700 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 49,186 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories support cuts ' could save ' police detonation of plymouth wwii bomb four arrests after body discovery most popular stories now most shared most read lab-grown urethra ' world first ' full face transplant for us man hobbit filming finally under way ' drugs to the brain ' breakthrough most popular now , in detail most shared most read us ' to tone down role in libya ' live : libya crisis russian leaders spar over libya japan will overcome crisis - iaea us sorry for afghan corpse photos china blamed for gmail disruption yemeni general backs opposition what chance of a ' big one ' in tokyo ?
hobbit filming finally under way no stopping limitless at cinemas most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 67,571 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 18,400 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages -lsb- an error occurred while processing this directive -rsb- low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories support cuts ' could save ' police detonation of plymouth wwii bomb four arrests after body discovery most popular stories now most shared most read defecating dog sparks us shootout the bizarre world of time zones botanic gardens ' invasives ' role us priests in sex abuse pay-out most popular now , in detail most shared most read libya rebels ' recapture key town ' radioactive levels rise by plant us beauty queen wins ' fat ' case live : libya crisis defecating dog sparks us shootout the muammar gaddafi story sa ' mugger ' baboon to be put down gaddafi may seek revenge - clarke us priests in sex abuse pay-out anti-cuts protesters set to march most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis up periscope pioneering days at the start of soviet space programme digital lending how can libraries survive the e-book revolution ?
saudi tension the ' day of rage ' protests that failed to happen most popular now most popular now -pipe- 58,214 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 28,157 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories police escort for wedding guests disabled welcomed after hq revamp owl man told not to walk by road most popular stories now most shared most read nairobi bikers improve their own slum most popular now , in detail most shared most read obama plea for gulf coast tourism rise of the mamils -lrb- middle-aged men in lycra -rrb- diana dors sports car to be sold sun 's ' quiet period ' explained nairobi bikers improve their own slum lady gondolier gets nod in venice lebanon opens fund to equip army jewel gang ' thief ' sent to japan pakistan says 20m hit by floods iraqi asylum seekers struggle to survive in sweden most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 40,857 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 16,271 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories pre-school closed over asbestos object thrown at railway worker two divers airlifted to hospital most popular stories now most shared most read living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars bhutan 's happiness formula follow a fiver - from production to destruction most popular now , in detail most shared most read craigslist ' killer ' dies in jail ban shocked by pakistan flooding man , 19 , raped in county tyrone spectators killed at us car race cbbc presenter hurt in pier leap diana dors sports car to be sold in pictures : historic orthodox mass living in fear of mexico 's drugs wars ' jarhead ' bear gets out of a jam horrors faced by ' forgotten army ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 24,057 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 9,586 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories fewer jobless claimants in devon plymouth tobacco smuggler jailed jobs go as coach company closes most popular stories now most shared most read russia country profile keyboards ' dirtier than a toilet ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read iran stoning woman ' confesses ' pakistan floods ' decimate crops ' coroner 's criticism over photos of dying dorset girl brazil air force to record ufo sightings man grows pea plant inside lung relic of ' original earth ' exposed fasting warning for mums-to-be deadly fires rage on in portugal vodafone backs down in android row iraq ' not ready ' for us pull-out most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 73,000 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 25,929 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories traffic light switch off call two charged after knife assault arrest after air rifle shooting most popular stories now most shared most read turkey country profile return to ' last great wilderness ' most popular now , in detail most shared most read chinese ' infant breasts ' inquiry swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty india sets deadline on blackberry israeli ' agent ' sent to germany asteroid found in space graveyard zardari tries to ease flood anger weekly world news quiz moscow ' hiding heatstroke cases ' woman banned from all sainsbury 's fears over £ 65bn ' nhs mortgage ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,014 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 5,700 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories clamp attack charity boss guilty death crash lorry driver charged traffic light switch off call most popular stories now most shared most read halal holidays in the sun most popular now , in detail most shared most read runaway train on london tube line teenage girl raped in city centre swede faces $ 1m speeding penalty germany in ' record ' 2.2 % growth meteors still set for ' good show ' iran nuclear plant start date set peru battles killer vampire bats bodies found in south africa mine are picky eaters ' genes to blame ?
chinese set human domino record most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 80,414 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 34,857 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales education magazine uk election business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version tesco is chosen to redevelop town brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news the plan will include a superstore , homes and shops bbc devon sport , travel , weather , things to do , features and much more see also fishing port 's funding confirmed 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon £ 280,000 study into regeneration 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top devon stories ' laser ' light train attack charge rural healthcare unites parties thousands attend bay biker event most popular stories now most shared most read fat americans a ' security threat ' your pictures of scotland : 23 april - 30 april the virginity industry hundreds strip off in lowry shoot prostate cancer vaccine approved most popular now , in detail most shared most read plane diverted after bomb ' joke ' hundreds strip off in lowry shoot weather hampers us oil clean-up fat americans a ' security threat ' escort girl claims cast cloud over french football bp under fire over us oil spill in pictures : may day rallies protesters confront greek police us navy asked to share sub detail ' bigot ' row woman will not vote most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis elusive peace fearful times as militants regroup in swat valley blow the whistle call-girl 's claims cast cloud over french football in pictures demonstrators mark may day around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 50,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 32,914 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- england -pipe- devon -pipe- tesco is chosen to redevelop town bbc news / devon graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 06:16 gmt 07:16 uk tesco is chosen to redevelop town supermarket giant tesco has been chosen as the preferred developer to regenerate a devon town centre .
it is expected the final plan for brixham will include a large superstore , homes , shops and a new area for buses and taxis .
the scheme is expected to bring 200 jobs to brixham as part of the facelift which also includes a new fish market .
the plans go out for consultation this november with work expected to start next year .
jon andrewes , chairman of brixham 21 , said : " as last we have the retail offer for brixham that the community deserves .
" not only will the tesco store serve as an anchor for our retailers and create more jobs but the availability of proper car parking facilities in the town centre is of the utmost importance for residents and visitors . "
brixham is already a key fish landing port for tesco , one of only three in the uk .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : fishing port 's funding confirmed -lrb- 31 jul 07 -pipe- devon -rrb- £ 8.6m to regenerate fishing town -lrb- 23 jan 07 -pipe- devon -rrb- £ 280,000 study into regeneration -lrb- 30 jul 05 -pipe- devon -rrb- related internet links south west regional development agency torbay council european union the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' bbc news / health graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- health contents : medical notes wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives . "
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem " baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say " we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers " kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : ' the health staff knew nothing ' -lrb- 25 sep 07 -pipe- health -rrb- allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' -lrb- 20 may 07 -pipe- health -rrb- life-threatening wasp stings boom -lrb- 14 jul 06 -pipe- health -rrb- severe allergies ' rising sharply ' -lrb- 14 nov 03 -pipe- health -rrb- bee sting test could save lives -lrb- 02 feb 01 -pipe- health -rrb- related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- health contents : medical notes newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now most shared most read your news , your pictures enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' in pictures : finnish pursuits most popular now , in detail most shared most read world sauna event finalist dies north korea ' detains fishing boat from south ' duchess tries to avoid bankruptcy robbie williams ' marries in la ' no 10 rejects child milk cut idea dozens killed in china landslides the battle for berlin 's gardens tributes paid to killed uk doctor wanted man held over 2003 murders in pictures : finnish pursuits most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,514 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 14,657 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories gene offers bowel cancer ' shield ' cup of mint tea ' can kill pain ' drop in hiv infections and deaths most popular stories now most shared most read dr congo un operation ' failure ' un list aims to fight women abuse bbc news - call for 40-year term for ex-khmer rouge pris ...
domestic violence ' school plan ' bbc news - day in pictures most popular now , in detail most shared most read in pictures : nepal sacrifices us viewers complain over gay kiss dr congo un operation ' failure ' climate cash is ' unaccounted for ' queen and duke arrive in bermuda israel police ' arrest mossad spy ' ' robin hood ' banker helped poor swine flu ' will hit hajj numbers ' gaddafi ' to mediate ' football row khmer rouge 40-year jail demand most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis warming globe the past , present and possible future of climate change mardell 's america decision time for obama on afghanistan troops in pictures images from the world 's largest sacrificial festival most popular now most popular now -pipe- 23,200 people are reading stories on the site right now .
products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmix most popular now -pipe- 10,643 pages were read in the last minute .
back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now most shared most read most popular now , in detail most shared most read ' explosives ' damaged japan ship lockerbie bomber cancer ' no fake ' japan marks atom bomb anniversary dense wildfire smog grips moscow wyclef jean files election papers india minister breaks his silence why have the northern lights moved south ?
cameron and zardari to hold talks us demands wikileaks return files al-qaeda in pakistan ' top threat ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 65,457 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 19,543 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now most shared most read the battle for berlin 's gardens brazil country profile most popular now , in detail most shared most read turkey groom kills wedding guests robbie williams weds ayda field flash floods strike central europe , killing at least 15 rescuers sent to landslide victims in north-west china mexico police hold own commander hague test for campbell evidence world sauna event finalist dies iran lawyer in norway asylum bid pakistan ' honour killings ' probed brazil 's ' rubber soldiers ' fight for pay most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 15,943 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 4,843 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now most shared most read lack of sleep ' poses death risk ' holocaust ' ban ' e-mail confusion most popular now , in detail most shared most read us envoy hopes to ' calm ' n korea french king 's lost head ' genuine ' how life survived snowball earth beauty sleep concept ' not a myth ' brain clue to fighter pilot skill casino robbed of $ 1.5m in chips wikileaks chief 's release delayed diamonds goalkeeper roberts dies riots as berlusconi survives vote ghana due to pump its first oil most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 19,914 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 6,386 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories world cup sponsors ' unhealthy ' namibians sue over sterilisation hopes for breast cancer vaccine most popular stories now most shared most read e-mail error ends up on road sign the springwatch wild day out ...
hopes for breast cancer vaccine mars starts using animal products us sculptor louise bourgeois dies most popular now , in detail most shared most read doubt cast on israel raid account judges shot dead at china court duchess ' drinking ' in paper sting del toro ' takes leave ' of hobbit e-mail error ends up on road sign cage-fighter jailed for £ 53m raid homer named greatest tv character senior al-qaeda leader ' killed ' leak woes push bp shares down 15 % day in pictures most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis horst , why ?
german president 's shock resignation a blow to merkel gomp / arts the woman who brought giant spiders to london day in pictures a selection of pictures from around the world most popular now most popular now -pipe- 81,657 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 49,586 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- health -pipe- allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health medical notes science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:11 gmt 08:11 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version allergy epidemic gets ' poor care ' allergies have trebled in 20 years poor care and confusing advice is being used to deal with an allergy epidemic in the uk , experts have said .
the house of lords science and technology committee warned there were not enough specialist services and that food labelling was inadequate .
the cross-party group of peers said the uk was lagging behind western europe .
it also called for advice to pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts to be withdrawn .
the government said the findings would be considered .
it comes after the commons health committee criticised the lack of services in 2004 .
allergy centres the number of people suffering allergic reactions has trebled in the last 20 years with a third of the population estimated to suffer at some point in their lives .
the government must now take steps to deal with that problem baroness finlay science and technology committee health staff ' knew nothing ' each year over 6,000 people in england are admitted to hospital - a quarter of these with anaphylaxis which is a severe and potentially life-threatening reaction involving breathing difficulties .
allergic reactions are caused by substances in the environment known as allergens , of which the most common are pollen from trees and grasses , house dust mites , wasps , bees and food such as milk and eggs .
have your say we are talking about serious medical conditions that can kill you .
please try and be more understanding of genuine sufferers kathy , caerphilly send us your comments cases of asthma and skin disorders can also be allergy related .
the lords report called for specialist allergy centres to be set up in each region similar to the models operating in denmark and germany .
at the moment there are over 90 clinics , but only six are led by allergy consultants that can treat and diagnose the full range of conditions .
the report said gps and other health professionals had poor knowledge of allergies and recommended allergy training becomes a more important component of medical training .
abstaining the committee also heard evidence that abstaining from eating peanuts in pregnancy and in the early years may be increasing the risk of allergies developing and as a result called for a change to government guidance .
the peers said food warnings - which commonly involve the catch-all term " may contain nuts " - need to be clearer with details of the specific amounts of allergen contained within the product .
the report also called for better training for school staff to deal with allergies .
peanut advice the government currently advises pregnant women and young children not to eat peanuts because of the risk of allergic reactions but the house of lords committee said this should be withdrawn after hearing evidence from experts that abstaining may increase the risk of developing an allergy the department of health says the guidance is based on expert advice , but it will look at it after hearing form a food standards agency allergen review committee chairman baroness finlay said : " we have a severe shortage of expert medical provision to deal with allergies .
" the government must now take steps to deal with that problem . "
jules payne from the british allergy foundation agreed with the findings she said : " the problem is clearly at epidemic levels , which the house of lords report has recognised .
" it also recognises that there 's an appalling lack of allergy services within the nhs in the uk .
" now at the moment we 've got people who wait for months , if not years , for a referral to see an allergy specialist , so that really does need addressing . "
muriel simmons , of the allergy uk support group , welcomed the report , saying allergy services needed improving .
but she added : " similar recommendations were made in 2004 , but there has been nothing in the last three years to suggest that the government is taking serious steps to ease the burden of allergy sufferers . "
a royal college of physicians spokeswoman said : " a post-code lottery prevails . "
the government said it was waiting to hear from a food standards agency review before issuing updated guidance about eating peanuts .
but health minister ann keen added the government would be considering the other recommendations of the report .
she said allergy care had " firm foundations " with more than 90 allergy clinics operating in england and more money was being made available to increase specialist allergy training posts to build on that .
e-mail this to a friend printable version bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
video and audio news an allergy-sufferer describes his experience see also ' the health staff knew nothing ' 25 sep 07 -pipe- health allergy patients ' failed by nhs ' 20 may 07 -pipe- health life-threatening wasp stings boom 14 jul 06 -pipe- health severe allergies ' rising sharply ' 14 nov 03 -pipe- health bee sting test could save lives 02 feb 01 -pipe- health related internet links allergy uk department of health lords science and technology committee the anaphylaxis campaign the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top health stories stem cell method put to the test hospitals ' eyeing private market ' low vitamin d ' parkinson 's link ' most popular stories now most shared most read all to play for in brazil 's general election campaign most popular now , in detail most shared most read turks ' approve ' new constitution british troops ' smuggling heroin ' french survey reports sex misery boat death girl 's family tribute koran burning ' would be disaster ' hurricane igor gathers strength bankers meet to agree new rules tests due on father and daughter greece rejects debt restructuring deadly israeli shelling hits gaza most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 37,743 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 8,943 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
bbc news -pipe- in pictures -pipe- in pictures : on the set of chucklevision home news sport radio tv weather languages low graphics -pipe- accessibility help one-minute world news news services your news when you want it news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog last updated : wednesday , 26 september 2007 , 07:22 gmt 08:22 uk e-mail this to a friend in pictures : on the set of chucklevision the chuckle brothers - aka paul and barry chuckle - are filming the 20th series of their children 's tv programme , chucklevision in this episode , which will be shown early next year , the brothers visit their grandfathers at the bide a wee home for retired gentlefolk .
they discover that the matron has the residents engaged in virtual slave labour ; making and packing in-flight meals for fly-by-night airlines .
it does not take long before the chuckle granddads are out the door , supposedly visiting their old friend ' giant jock ' , leaving paul and barry to fill their shoes .
the residents - along with ' fake ' granddads paul and barry - hold a demonstration to get rid of matron .
she is yet to realise that the ' real ' granddads have escaped .
paul and barry were sent to make-up to transform them into the ' fake granddads ' ... ... make-up artist gill hall gave them a red nose , wig and flat cap for the scenes .
director jack jameson said : " paul and barry know exactly what they are doing ...
i just have to give them the space for them to do what they do best , which is perform . "
the chuckle 's real-life brother jimmy patton has appeared in 44 episodes , usually telling them off with his catchphrase ' no slacking ' .
in this episode he plays nurse slacking .
and there is no slacking for paul and barry , who use the breaks between scenes to swot up on their lines .
the chuckle brothers are celebrating 20 years of chucklevision .
the new series will be shown on cbbc in the new year .
back 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 next e-mail this to a friend bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
stars give panto masterclass the ' banana slip ' the ' aeroplane fall ' the door routine ' to me , to you ' 20 years of chuckling the story of chucklevision in pictures : on the set see also brothers mark 20 years of chuckles 26 sep 07 -pipe- entertainment top in pictures stories berlusconi survives vote snow hits us midwest day in pictures : 14 december most popular stories now most shared most read lack of sleep ' poses death risk ' rwanda : how the genocide happened most popular now , in detail most shared most read ' many drown ' in australia sinking french king 's lost head ' genuine ' in pictures : christmas island sinking brain clue to fighter pilot skill diamonds goalkeeper roberts dies casino robbed of $ 1.5m in chips beauty sleep concept ' not a myth ' ghana due to pump its first oil wikileaks chief 's release delayed how life survived snowball earth most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 69,200 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts bbc copyright notice mmx most popular now -pipe- 40,043 pages were read in the last minute . " ; back to top ^ ^ help privacy and cookies policy news sources about the bbc contact us
<p>
