vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino - das deutsche filmmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live deutschland heute - das deutschlandmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : " guernica " exhibited for the first time dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 07 dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1931 : ossietzky sentenced © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
death penalty amnesty says china and middle east countries are still the main culprits in terms of executions .
watch the video transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel passau videobox passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with theatre director stephen jameson listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet venice 's sea wall , fish conflict-mediation , industrial agriculture , rwandan methane listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : uk prisoners to get the vote postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet money in whaling and human-wildlife diseases listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9797 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - kick off !
countdown spezial we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1941 : death of henri bergson © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1912 : tragic end to scott expedition © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one – to-one with organist , conductor and composer neithard bethke listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic relations obama in europe two years after president obama 's first european visit , the transatlantic ties remain strong .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
bundeswehr how well-prepared will the new-look bundeswehr be for the challenges of the 21st century ?
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series in this week 's generation change , meet a school shooting survivor who is fighting for gun control .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes transatlantic voices europe 's malaise libya shows again that the eu 's defense policy is a monkey , not an organ grinder on the world stage .
weapons deals uk ministers criticized for allowing weapons exports to african and middle eastern regimes .
listen to the report international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live taliban terror the taliban have called on voters to boycott afghan female candidates and threatened terror attacks .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live new nato a meeting between chancellor merkel and nato chief rasmussen focussed on the future of the alliance .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week plans , prices and property listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by erika steinbach , representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio planet blog what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
planet blog : women are social media 's power users -pipe- planet blog -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de media -pipe- 09.07.2009 planet blog : women are social media 's power users großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : female bloggers are everywhere and posting about everything women over 30 are using social media more than their male counterparts and have been present in the blogosphere since its inception .
the blogher media network provides them with a place to meet - online and in person . a call went out on the web about five years ago , wondering where all the female bloggers were and lisa stone had a simple answer , " they 're everywhere . " on of the co-founders of the blogher media network , stone said women have been choosing to spend more time online using social media to stay informed with news from around the world . she explained how blogher became the leading participatory news , entertainment and information network for women online and how her favorite bloggers - male and female - keep the conversations on their weblogs interesting . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the entire interview with lisa stone www-links blogher check out the blogher media network radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day social media facebook & twitter keep up with deutsche welle on facebook or follow us on twitter .
not sure how ?
click here .
dw-radio program details learn more about the science and technology program . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus newslink plus - your link to europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 4 focus eye on defense nato meets in lisbon from nov .
19-20 for a summit to discuss the new challenges facing the alliance .
focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1942 : the evening before the stalingrad encirclement © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour halle 1 listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
stock exchange today in history 1924 : ebert loses libel trial © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the road to success -jutta kleinschmidt volkswagen - 12 companies and large ambitions looking ahead - transportation in tomorrow 's world 125 years of the car - the history of motoring stock exchange today in history 1788 : colonial australia © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9801 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra international listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week johann strauss wowed audiences with his magnificent waltzes listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live faith matters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live no nukes critics say us president obama 's latest push for a world free of nuclear weapons is unrealistic .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
afghanistan german soldiers use humanitarian methods to gain the population 's support in char dara district .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week food , gas and patriotism listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9799 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1983 : margaret thatcher is re-elected dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1976 : explosion in seveso dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1971 : aldi boss kidnapped © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : minister brought down due to the greenpeace affair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1991 : " operation desert storm " begins © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : austrian neutrality © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 41 : caligula murdered © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1861 : the largest blacksmith 's hammer at krupp © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9800 dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1982 : argentinians land in the falklands © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : penicillin production in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1997 : jan ullrich wins the tour de france dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1968 : emergency laws passed dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1981 : prince charles marries lady diana dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by erika steinbach , representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - special we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet gunning for forests listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1926 : bauhaus dessau © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : laying of the foundation stone in wolfsburg dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1982 : solidarnosc banned © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : ludwig museum opened in cologne © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fujitsu germany - relief for the japanese parent company mini-hydro power plant - energy for everyday household needs portugal accepts eu bailout - who 's next ?
audi & the dtm - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1962 : the beatles at the star club © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio london 2012 london threw a party to celebrate one year before the summer olympics 2012 .
listen to the report eastern europe four years after romania joined the eu , its capital city bucharest is enjoying a renaissance .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response change the guard ?
strauss-kahn 's fall prompts reader skepticism about european stewardship of the imf .
health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio poland poles protest the visit by erika steinbach , representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : boris becker wins wimbledon dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet tiger protection , aquaponics , mexican gm corn and exporting waste to russia listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report insight © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live peace talks neither side at the middle east talks is showing it will move forward quickly towards an agreement .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live us elections us president obama 's democratic party faces an uphill battle in the upcoming midterm elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : the " rubble women " get started dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 09.07.2009 power plant fire puts nuclear energy on germany ’ s election agenda a fire at one of germany ’ s nuclear power stations reignites the nuclear debate ahead of september ‘ s general elections , with the plant ’ s swedish owners admitting the damage was worse than originally believed . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl 0907 vattenfall-germany 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1871 : the paris commune © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1967 : thalidomide bill of indictment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1955 : austrian neutrality © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population -pipe- current affairs -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de opinion -pipe- 09.07.2009 developing nations must prepare for rapidly growing , aging population großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : populations are already graying in the highly industrialized world population growth wo n't affect all the world 's regions in the same way , and nations will have to develop the means to adjust to a changing population , according to dr. markus loewe of the german development institute . world population day is an occasion to reflect on the united nations ' most recent world population projections for the coming decades .
the projections ' authors raised , rightly , several questions : how many inhabitants the earth will one day have and whether the resources available will be sufficient to sustain them ; and how realistic the climate targets set in kyoto are against the background of a world population set to increase by another three , four , five , or six billion people . the united nations projections not only indicate that world population will continue to grow until at least 2050 , and in particular that the share of people living in cities will continue to rise .
they also show that the rate of world population growth has already passed its zenith , that , in other words , the number of the earth 's inhabitants is growing at an increasingly slower rate . this , of course , does not apply equally for all countries in the world .
in many african nations population growth continues virtually unchecked , while demographic growth rates in south asia , latin america , and , above all , east asia are already declining sharply .
they have reached zero levels in western europe , and are developing negatively in eastern europe , where population is shrinking by up to 0.5 percent per year . pension systems for developing countries bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the german development institute is a think tank based in bonn in developing countries , for instance , the number of children born per women , is also declining .
gradually , people in developing countries are also becoming aware of the fact that better hygiene , medicine , and nutrition allow mortality rates to decline , which means that couples no longer need to have numerous children to make sure that at least two or three of them will survive .
in addition , some developing countries now have old-age pension systems with the effect that elderly people are no longer wholly dependent on the support of their own children . however , the fact that birth rates are declining nearly everywhere in the world , while medical care continues to improve , has one explosive implication that is often overlooked in considering population projections - namely that this trend is at the same time also altering the age structure of the population .
more and more young people are crowding into the labor market in search of jobs , while the number of new births is rising at lower and lower rates .
as a result , the working-age population - people aged between 15 and 60 years - is growing faster than the total population .
the group of people below the age of 15 is not growing as rapidly as it did in the years of peak population growth . investing in education pays off this trend is good news for countries that invest substantially in productive assets , education , and know-how .
they are able to provide productive jobs for many of their labor market entrants , which ensures that a growing share of the population is employed .
another relevant factor is that women who have fewer and fewer children do not need to spend as much time educating their children .
they are therefore increasingly free to seek gainful employment . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smaller families could help more kids attend school finally , families with fewer children to feed are able to save more money or to invest in better education for their children .
the high economic growth rates experienced in recent years by china and other east asian countries are due , among other things , to just this development : families work more , save more , and spend more on education ; and the per capita wealth passed on from one generation to the next grows because it no longer needs to be distributed among a high number of children .
in other words , societies are growing in qualitative instead of quantitative terms . equipping bread winners with skills this trend , though , is problematic for countries that do not invest sufficiently in education and productive assets .
their political and economic framework conditions are too insecure for foreign investors , and even domestic capital owners prefer to invest their assets abroad , because their educational systems are substandard , and because women - even though they raise fewer children - are not available for the labor market . in these countries , only the number of male job seekers is growing .
however , these men tend to be poorly equipped to meet the needs of the labor market , and in these countries too little is invested in business enterprises that offer employment to job seekers .
even though a growing share of the population is employable , the number of actually employed persons is virtually stagnant .
what we find instead is proliferating discontent among the growing numbers of unemployed or underemployed young men .
this phenomenon can be observed very clearly in the countries of the middle east and north africa , but also in some latin american countries . aging population will hit developing countries too at a later stage , the developing countries will find themselves faced with another challenge only too familiar to the industrialized countries : twenty to 30 years after birth rates have begun to subside , fewer young people will be pushing into labor markets .
at the same time , the number of people too old for gainful employment will increase , because the high-birth-rate cohorts will be reaching retirement age and because people will live longer lives . as a result , a working-age population that is growing at a slow rate will have to provide for a retirement-age population that is growing at an accelerating rate .
as is currently the case in the industrialized countries , this will constitute a major strain on both public old-age pension systems and families in the developing countries .
this trend is already taking on clear contours in china , where the transition from high to low rates of population growth was accelerated by the one-child policy adopted in 1979 by the chinese government . prepare in time to meet future challenges bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : loewe is a senior economist with the german development institute the developing countries will be confronted with this new challenge far more abruptly and acutely than the industrialized countries used to be , because the decline in birth rates will have proceeded more rapidly in the former .
they would thus be well advised to prepare in time to meet this challenge .
this could prove possible if they take advantage of the transition period , in which an especially large share of the population is of working age , to accumulate savings that they will later be able to use for coping with the rise in their retirement-age population . they should , in other words , take advantage of the period of time with a favorable population age structure - a period in which a particularly large share of the population is gainfully employed - to save and invest with a view to successfully negotiating the unfavorable period of demographic transition .
they may in this case be better off than today 's industrialized countries , which , fully unprepared for the challenge , are now struggling to come to grips with the consequences of an aging population . dr. markus loewe is a senior economist with the " competitiveness and social development " at the german development institute / deutsches institut für entwicklungspolitik -lrb- die -rrb- . author : dr. markus loewe -lrb- ar -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de more words than action in g-8 development pledge to africa when the group of eight meet in italy , they will turn their eyes towards the african continent to discuss how to fulfil a long-standing commitment to help the world 's poorest countries .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- eu conference on migration and integration kicks off in berlin how well is europe coping with the integration of its foreign residents ?
a two-day eu conference in berlin will discuss methods to monitor migratory trends within europe .
-lrb- 15.06.2009 -rrb- africa hopes for better times as investors size up business opportunites the world economic forum opened in south africa on wednesday with a host of business and political leaders trying to assess africa 's challenges and opportunities .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- www-links the german development institute official web site feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour dw-world.de check out our latest interactive web features dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile optimized for pdas newsletters news in your inbox audio / video podcasts © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live more talks fresh from their us talks , israelis and palestinians meet again on their elusive quest for peace .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- feedback is the us coming down to hard on americans in switzerland ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : switzerland mcdonald 's becomes latest firm to follow the lure of low-tax switzerland us federal court judge approves delay in ubs tax secrecy trial banking -pipe- 09.07.2009 expats caught in us-swiss banking dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a us-swiss banking secrecy spat is moving some banks to ask american clients to close their accounts swiss authorities say they wo n't allow banking giant ubs to give us authorities information on its american clients .
the ongoing row is causing some swiss banks to ask americans to take their business elsewhere . the anger is practically dripping from kristin stroemstad 's voice when she talks about the fallout from the swiss-us banking dispute over tax evaders that is hitting americans with swiss bank accounts , including personal friends . " it 's putting everyone into one basket -lrb- with the evaders -rrb- , and it 's not fair , " said stroemstad , a norwegian-american who lives in geneva and heads the american international club there . two of switzerland 's biggest banks , ubs and credit suisse , along with other smaller financial institutions , are asking americans to either move their accounts into specially created units registered with the us securities and exchange commission , or to close them altogether . several swiss banks are not willing to abide by stepped-up rules imposed by the us to counter tax evasion .
they consider the new reporting regulations too complicated and time consuming , and therefore their american clients are just no longer worth it . it is not known exactly how many people are affected , but some 30,000 americans live in switzerland , according to geneva-based american citizens abroad .
one of the group 's founders , andy sundberg , says he gets calls every day from americans asking : " what do we do ? " " what is happening , either willfully or by neglect , is that the us government has turned americans overseas into toxic clients for banks , " he said .
he calls it a crusade by overzealous us tax officials that is punishing american expats and stirring up resentment in europe , for little reason . disclose , disclose the us tax authority , the internal revenue service -lrb- irs -rrb- , is putting increasing pressure on americans to disclose their offshore accounts in a bid to recoup what it estimates is $ 50 billion in unpaid taxes .
us citizens have until sept .
23 to make the disclosure or face high fines and possible jail time . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : swiss banking giant ubs is at the center of the scandal ubs , switzerland 's largest bank , said last july it planned to stop all offshore banking and investment services for people subject to us taxes , unless they were in the special us-registered units . americans have also had difficulty opening investment accounts at bank zweiplus and raiffeisen switzerland .
private bank mirabeau & cie. is closing its " few remaining " accounts held by americans , according to bloomberg . " we have to be prudent , " said pierre mirabeau , senior partner of the bank . escalating row the conflict between the us and switzerland over banking secrecy , on a slow boil for some time now , is rapidly heating up . the us justice department has filed a lawsuit against ubs demanding the names of about 52,000 americans who are suspected of using confidential ubs accounts to hide nearly $ 15 billion in assets and evade us taxes .
a court hearing in miami is scheduled for july 13 . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the us hopes to recoup billions from american tax evaders in switzerland but on wednesday , july 8 , the swiss government vowed it would prevent ubs from handing over its client information to us authorities , saying it would be against swiss law . " the irs now inappropriately seeks to provoke international conflict through this civil proceeding , " swiss authorities said in a statement . the clash , which is straining relations between the us and switzerland , takes place amid the backdrop of a concerted campaign by countries such as germany , france and the us to crack down on tax havens such as switzerland and luxembourg . ubs did admit to wrongdoing in february of this year , disclosing the names of some 250 clients and paying a fine of $ 780 million in order to avoid tax fraud criminal charges .
while tax fraud is a crime in switzerland , tax evasion is not . banking secrecy switzerland says that fact does not undermine the legitimacy of swiss banking secrecy on the whole .
but the us justice department has up to now been unmoved by such arguments . " the vital national interest of the united states in fighting attempts by us taxpayers to avoid and evade their tax obligations outweighs the general swiss interest in maintaining the secrecy of its banking relationships , " the department said in a brief filed with the court in miami . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the flag could be lowering on swiss banking secrecy however , swiss officials have said there is still room for a deal , or an out-of-court settlement , which could involve a multi-billion-dollar fine for ubs . the worst-case scenario , according to marc maurer , a banking expert at switzerland 's zfu international business school , would involve ubs losing its banking license in the us . " i do n't think it will go that far , " he said .
" i see this more as a power play between the us and switzerland . " the development is yet another case of international pressure coming down on switzerland 's cherished banking secrecy system , which still has broad support at home .
however , mauer said that many in the swiss banking industry think the system has a limited shelf life . but even if banking secrecy rules are changed , according to him , it will not mean the end of swiss banking . " this traditional discretion is not the only pillar that banking stands on , " he said .
" there are other things , such as stability , quality , good communication , etc . , that will still draw banking customers to this country . " author : kyle james editor : michael knigge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de oecd countries set to tighten screws on tax havens at a meeting in berlin on tuesday , the oecd finance ministers agreed to step up the fight against tax evasion , focusing on countries such as switzerland , liechtenstein and luxembourg .
-lrb- 23.06.2009 -rrb- germany to crack down on tax evasion amid diplomatic furore the german bundestag is examining a new legal initiative to curb rampant tax evasion with finance minister peer steinbrueck accusing neighboring countries of aiding and abetting in fraud .
-lrb- 08.05.2009 -rrb- ubs warns us tax fraud battle could be its ruin a swiss court has temporarily banned ubs from transferring any customer data to us authorities until it has heard a protest brought by bank clients .
the bank 's lawyers said complying with the us would be very costly .
-lrb- 21.02.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- feedback do you think nuclear power is a safe source of energy ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ringhals plant produces almost 20 percent of sweden 's power after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures . the swedish radiation safety authority -lrb- ssm -rrb- has placed the ringhals nuclear plant , in the southwest of the country , under special supervision after a series of incidents .
" the agency has on several occasions pointed out deficiencies that have been followed by measures from ringhals , but the problems still remain , " said swedish radiation safety authority official leif karlsson .
according to reports , the first incident occurred late in 2008 and involved the failure of an automatic safety system to switch on .
the second , at the start of 2009 , involved faulty control rods that are designed to regulate nuclear activity .
the nuclear watchdog also cited weaknesses in how officials at the nuclear plant carried out routines and how instructions were adhered to .
ringhals ' four reactors produce up to one-fifth of sweden 's electricity .
on tuesday , vattenfall , which also operates nuclear reactors in germany , fired the manager of one of its facilities near hamburg after a short circuit at that plant .
it is not the first time that the ssm has placed a swedish plant under special supervision .
in july 2006 , officials put the forsmark nuclear plant under supervision after the shutdown of one of its reactors .
sweden at one time had as many as 12 nuclear reactors in operation , but decommissioned two reactors at the barseback plant in southern sweden in an effort to cut back on nuclear energy .
the current center-right government has announced that the country will continue relying on nuclear plants , disregarding a 1980 referendum in which sweden decided to gradually phase them out. av / dpa / afp / ap editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic germany 's kruemmel power plant had to be shut down after a series of incidents -lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 09.07.2009 sauerland terror suspects ' confessions ' comprehensive , ' say authorities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : daniel s. and his fellow defendants have confessed the confessions of the four suspected islamic militants on trial for plotting to bomb us targets in germany are far more comprehensive than expected , according to reports from a duesseldorf regional court . ottmar breidling , one of the lead counsels in the trial , told reporters that statements made by the four men could stretch to 1,000 pages .
the initial hearings ended this week and the statements will be studied ahead of their official reading to the court , scheduled for august 10 , after the summer recess .
the suspects began making their confessions in late june , some two months after their trial began .
it is one of the biggest terrorism trials in germany since the urban guerrillas of the red army faction faced court in the 1970s .
two of the suspects , fritz g. and daniel s. , aged 29 and 23 respectively , are german converts to islam .
a third suspect , attila s. , is a 24-year-old german citizen of turkish origin , while 30-year-old adem y. is a turkish national .
suspects accused of planning massive attacks bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hydrogen peroxide was to be used in the bombs the so-called sauerland cell is named after a region near frankfurt where three of the men were apprehended in september 2007 along with 26 detonators and 12 drums of hydrogen peroxide , a substance used in the deadly attacks on london 's transport system two years before .
attila s. was later caught in turkey .
authorities say the group aimed to carry out attacks as deadly as those of september 11 , 2001 which killed more than 3,000 people in the united states .
the suspects face 15 years in prison if convicted on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization and conspiring to mount at least three bomb attacks in german cities targeting us citizens .
prosecutors accuse the four of acting on behalf of the islamic jihad union -lrb- iju -rrb- , a militant islamic extremist group with roots in uzbekistan and ties to al qaeda .
however , the dusseldorf court has revealed that defendants continue to deny membership of the iju. nda / dpa / afp editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de all four suspects in terrorism trial set to confess four suspected islamist militants on trial for plotting to kill americans in germany have told a duesseldorf court they are prepared to confess .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- " sauerland cell " trial opens in duesseldorf a group of men accused of plotting a series of car bombings across germany have appeared in court at the beginning of germany 's biggest terrorism trial in decades .
-lrb- 22.04.2009 -rrb- search for suspects continues after averted terror attacks prosecutors arrested three men and are searching for five more suspects who are accused of planning " massive " terrorist attacks .
investigators suggested that us military facilities in germany could have been the targets .
-lrb- 05.09.2007 -rrb- feedback how serious is the threat of domestic terrorism ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week traditions of the advent season listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet triumphant greens , banning cars and measuring a nitrogen footprint listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week liquid assets listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds maike mia höhne - curator berlinale shorts listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : betancourt book sparks controversy in france postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 09.07.2009 osce resolution equating stalinism with nazism enrages russia großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : russia is angry that stalin 's reign is likened to that of hitler russia continues to react angrily to last week ’ s organization for security and cooperation in europe -lrb- osce -rrb- resolution likening stalinism to nazism . " we consider unacceptable the fact that in the osce 's parliamentary assembly resolution there is an attempt to distort history with political goals , " said russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko on thursday .
" this does not contribute to creating an atmosphere of trust and cooperation between the member states of this body , " he added .
earlier this week lawmakers from russia 's two chambers of parliament said in a statement that the osce resolution was a " direct insult to the memory of millions " of soviet soldiers who " gave their lives for the freedom of europe from the fascist yoke . "
the parliamentary assembly of the 56-nation osce passed the resolution last friday at a meeting in the lithuanian capital vilnius by an overwhelming majority .
the resolution would make august 23 a day of remembrance for victims of stalinism and nazism .
that 's the day in 1939 that germany and the soviet union signed a pact carving up eastern europe between them .
world war ii started just over a week later .
resolution condemns stalinism bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : imprisonment , forced labor and cruelty are synonymous with stalin the resolution , proposed by lithuania and fellow ex-communist state slovenia , said 20th-century europe had faced " two major totalitarian regimes , the nazi and the stalinist , which brought genocide , violations of human rights and freedoms , war crimes and crimes against humanity . "
it urged all osce members to take a " united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background " and slammed the " glorification of totalitarian regimes , including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the nazi or stalinist past . "
" the adoption of this resolution means that a 56-nation alliance has condemned stalinism , and that 's crucial , " said lithuanian lawmaker vilija aleknaite-abramikiene , who drafted it .
moscow 's delegation boycotted the vote on the final day of a week-long session of the osce 's parliamentary assembly after failing to have the resolution withdrawn .
russia resists fiercely any attempt to equate the regimes of adolf hitler and joseph stalin .
the osce assembly comprises 320 lawmakers .
just eight voted against the resolution and four abstained .
among the opponents was michel billout , a french communist party lawmaker .
" this resolution confuses nazism and stalinism , " he told reporters .
" that wo n't help to build a future where we 're able to stop these crimes recurring . "
stalin remains a hero to many russians bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " uncle joe " is still seen as a benevolent leader by some despite being blamed for the deaths of millions of people through purges and forced collectivism under his rule , stalin remains a hero for many russians for his role in defeating nazi germany in world war ii .
he came third in a nationwide poll last year to find russia 's greatest-ever personality .
however , he is vilified in eastern europe for imposing dictatorial communist regimes across the region that remained in power until the 1980s .
in may , russian president dmitry medvedev ordered the formation of a commission to defend russia from historical " falsifications , " and promote moscow 's view that its role in the world war ii was heroic and beyond reproach , given the immense human cost sustained by soviet forces in pushing back nazi germany .
the government also brought forward a controversial bill that would make it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison to " rehabilitate nazism " by denying the soviet union 's role in the world war ii victory over germany. nda / dpa / afp editor : kyle james send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de three baltic states commemorate post-war deportations people in the three baltic states of latvia , estonia and lithuania will recall one of the region 's darkest hours , the soviet deportation of thousands of ordinary families four years after the end of world war ii .
-lrb- 25.03.2009 -rrb- some germans see positive aspects to nazi rule , poll shows despite the horrors of nazi rule , one in four germans believes there were at least some positive aspects , according to a new poll .
a leading jewish organization called the findings " ugly , disastrous and sad . " -lrb- 18.10.2007 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de energy -pipe- 09.07.2009 vattenfall 's nuclear plants in hot water großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : vattenfall has been accused of lax oversight sweden 's government-owned electric utility , vattenfall , has admitted that fuel rods may have been damaged when one of its german nuclear power plants underwent an emergency shutdown last saturday . the company said it discovered that " possibly a few " of the 80,000 uranium fuel rods inside the reactor were " defective . "
vattenfall has blamed the plant manager for failing to install discharge detectors on a transformer as promised to german authorities .
the incident last weekend is the second major mishap after a 2007 electrical transformer fire at the kruemmel power station near hamburg .
although the latest malfunction did not involve the reactor itself , it has suddenly turned nuclear safety into an election issue in germany and thrown an uncomfortable spotlight onto vattenfall , which operates two of germany 's 17 nuclear plants .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the other side of energy in schleswig-holstein the conservative state premier of schleswig-holstein , peter harry carstensen , has threatened vattenfall with the permanent closure of kruemmel , which is in his state , if the utility does not get its act together .
carstensen and his party , chancellor angela merkel 's christian democrats , generally support the use of nuclear power .
german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier , the ranking social democrat who is campaigning to unseat merkel in the september elections , has called for kruemmel to be shut down for good .
kruemmel was in operation for only two weeks after two years of repairs when saturday 's shutdown occurred and this means the plant will be off the power grid for many more months while two transformers are replaced .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hatakka defended his company on thursday at a press conference in berlin vattenfall now faces intense scrutiny tuoma hatakka , the chief executive of vattenfall europe , has insisted that " kruemmel is safe " and gave assurances at a press conference in berlin that " all technical and organizational processes will be re-examined . "
vattenfall claims that there was " no danger to the public at any point , " but hatakka admitted the mishap was a " setback " , and had " once again reduced public trust . "
he conceded that nuclear regulators had not been promptly informed after kruemmel 's shutdown last weekend knocked out more than 1,500 traffic lights in hamburg and cut off electricity to some shopping malls .
this week , vattenfall 's image took another beating after swedish media reported that sweden 's nuclear safety authority was considering stricter supervision of the company 's operations in its home country .
the possible action follows the accumulation of 60 safety incidents , two of them described as very serious , at its ringhals power plant near gothenburg in southern sweden. gb / dpa / afp / ard editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swedish nuclear watchdog puts plant on probation amid safety concerns after a series of incidents that could endanger the security at a nuclear plant in sweden , officials in the scandinavian country have called for new security measures .
-lrb- 09.07.2009 -rrb- vattenfall sacks head of defective nuclear plant four days after a technical failure shut down a nuclear power station in northern germany , operator vattenfall admitted to having made a mistake , while social democrats and greens are urging a boycott .
-lrb- 08.07.2009 -rrb- history of vattenfall nuclear power errors stretches back two years the kruemmel nuclear power plant in northern germany had only been back online for two weeks before a malfunction saw it taken back off the power grid .
dw looks back at a series of events surrounding the facility .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- energy debate flares in germany following malfunction at nuclear plant germany 's environment ministry has promised to run checks on all electrical systems in the country 's nuclear power station after an incident that removed the kruemmel plant from the electricty grid .
-lrb- 06.07.2009 -rrb- nuclear plant shuts down after second mishap a controversial german nuclear power plant at the center of a national energy debate has been forced to shut down again following a second mishap .
-lrb- 04.07.2009 -rrb- feedback does nuclear energy have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany german reunification europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 09.07.2009 egyptian woman 's courtroom murder prompts merkel , mubarak meeting großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the murder and government response has led to protests the courtroom murder of a muslim woman in the eastern german city of dresden has sparked protests in her native egypt and pushed german chancellor angela merkel to broach the topic with her egyptian counterpart . the german chancellor is to address the issue when she meets with egyptian president hosny mubarak in l 'aquila , italy , on friday on the sidelines of the g-8 summit currently underway there , german government spokesman thomas steg told reporters wednesday .
germany 's government strongly condemned the murder , but has been unable to assuage anger in the german and egyptian muslim communities over what they called a flimsy government response to the incident .
steg went on to deny claims the government had previously remained silent about the case , adding that " this repulsive crime shocks and appals us .
" this is an abhorrent deed , one that has left us all dismayed and shocked … neither right-wing extremism nor xenophobia can have a place in germany . "
he said chancellor angela merkel 's head of minority affairs , maria boehmer , had earlier voiced the government 's condolences to elwy okaz , 32 , the murdered woman 's husband , and the german ambassador to egypt had attended a memorial service for her .
marwa el-shirbini , 31 , an egyptian , was stabbed 18 times by a german man of russian origin as she was about to give evidence against him in court on july 1 .
the killing attracted international attention particularly after the matter was addressed on tv talk shows and daily newspapers in egypt .
anger in egypt the incident led to demonstrations outside the german embassy in cairo , with protestors accusing the west of islamophobia .
more protests are planned for coming days .
egypt announced wednesday it would send a state prosecutor to germany to help with the investigation into the fatal stabbing .
the assailant , identified as axel w. , had been convicted last november of insulting and abusing the woman , who was wearing a headscarf , calling her a " terrorist " and a " whore " after she asked him to let her son sit on a swing in a playground in dresden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : el-sherbini 's husband was injured in the courtroom attack months later , as el-sherbini was giving evidence at an appeal hearing , axel w. leapt across the courtroom and stabbed her several times in front of her son and her husband .
she was three months pregnant .
her husband was wounded attempting to fight off the attack .
" islamophobic " crime aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims , was critical of the government 's initial reaction .
he told german daily der tagesspiegel that steg , the government spokesman , had claimed monday the facts were unclear .
" the evidence of an islamophobic crime is overwhelming , " said mazyek .
" caution is fine , but that sounded close to wriggling out . "
a council representing germany 's four main national islamic bodies called wednesday for silent vigils to mark el-shirbini 's murder , saying : " marwa 's death has made us all both scared and horrified .
politicians in our country have to start dealing seriously with hatred of islam . "
the council charged that she was a victim of hate websites that had sprung up after germany had tried to prevent teachers from wearing headscarves. dfm / dpa / afp editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : germany 's muslim community larger than thought a report by the interior ministry shows that germany 's muslim community is larger and more diverse than previously estimated .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- dw-world : german interior minister speaks in cairo on muslim integration in a speech at cairo university in egypt , german interior minister wolfgang schaeuble sought understanding for germany 's integration policies .
the speech came just ahead of the next german islam conference in berlin .
-lrb- 21.06.2009 -rrb- dw-world : german muslim community split over co-ed swimming classes muslim parents have lost an appeal against their nine year-old daughter having to attend mixed swimming lessons with boys .
the girls can protect their modesty , however , with full-length bathing suits .
-lrb- 21.05.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : was the german government 's response to the murder sufficient ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : quadriga audio : audio : listen live feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
picture gallery a historical flash gallery leads you through from the division of germany to reunification .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : german path to unity picture gallery demolished treasures east germany made significant contributions to modern architecture - but many have been torn down .
quiz of the week win a prize review the week 's articles for a chance to win a prize .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2009 home news world germany german reunification europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : dossier : the highs and lows of reunification dw-world : learning about communist east germany sheds light on the present dw-world : head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read dw-world : iconic berlin soccer club cancels sponsorship deal over stasi row dw-world : few east germans interested in revisiting stasi atrocities eastern germany -pipe- 09.07.2009 thousands of former stasi spies at work in german civil service , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the stasi archives hold information about nearly everyone who lived in the gdr the german edition of the " financial times " reports that more than 17,000 former members of east germany 's dreaded stasi secret police have been holding down jobs as civil servants in reunified germany . more than 17,000 employees in the current administrations of the five eastern german states had close links to the communist secret police , the report in the financial times deutschland -lrb- ftd -rrb- says .
most of them were stasi informants , who were charged with passing on information about the private lives of colleagues , friends and neighbors .
the report was based on findings gathered by a team of researchers at berlin 's free university who specialize in east german communist rule .
the revelations have " a dimension , which no one could have ever expected , " the paper quoted to the head of the research team , klaus schroeder , as saying .
vetting in vain bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi spies even collected the scents of those they deemed enemies of the state the stasi had 200,000 employees , about half of whom worked as informants .
in effect , one in every 50 east germans was linked to the stasi .
under german post-unification laws , adopted in 1991 , all civil servants in eastern german state administrations were vetted for secret police collaboration .
but the ftd reports that while thousands of former stasi were fired , many kept their jobs , not least because vetting procedures were interpreted differently in different states .
in the state of saxony , for example , nearly half the civil servants found to be former stasi were allowed to keep their posts .
stasi researcher klaus schroeder described the vetting process in these states as " standardized and superficial . "
the report emerges following news reports earlier this month that two policemen guarding german chancellor angela merkel 's weekend residence outside berlin were allegedly former stasi officers in charge of bugging telephones .
on wednesday , germany 's federal criminal police office -lrb- bka -rrb- admitted that it hired 48 stasi officers after unification in 1990 , and that it still employed 23 of them .
the bka admitted that one was indeed working in a bodyguard unit , but denied the connection to guarding the german chancellor .
stasi victims outraged bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stasi prisoners often spent years in jail for minor offenses east german victims of stasi persecution speak of a scandal of considerable magnitude .
ronald laessig , spokesman for the association of victims of stalinism -lrb- vos -rrb- , told reporters in berlin on thursday that it was " a slap in the face of every stasi victim " that the past perpetrators were able to land jobs in " sensitive areas of state administration . "
gerhard ruden , commissioner for stasi affairs in the state of saxony-anhalt , demanded that all eastern german civil servants be vetted again for stasi links .
this was necessary as " an act of political hygiene , " he told the ftd .
but brandenburg state interior minister joerg schoenbohm countered that the effort would be futile .
" their employment contracts are legally binding " , he told german zdf public television .
" former stasi employees can only be dismissed if they have wilfully deceived their employer about their past – a charge which can not be brought against them after they have gone through the vetting process . "
re-opening the vetting process for civil servants is difficult .
in 2006 the german parliament revised the law governing access to east germany 's secret police files , disallowing state administrations to look into the files of minor employees .
uh / afp / dpa / ap editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : head of stasi archive says countless files have yet to be read marianne birthler , the head of the agency that oversees the archives holding millions of files collected by the former east german secret police , says many files remain untouched .
-lrb- 26.05.2009 -rrb- dw-world : politicians : more education about gdr 's true nature needed politicians have called for a new effort to educate young people about the true nature of east germany after recently surfaced shoot-to-kill orders have rekindled a debate about conditions in the communist country .
-lrb- 16.08.2007 -rrb- dw-world : fear and oppression still linger at stasi 's " personal prison " a new permanent exhibition opened friday at the former " stasi prison " in bautzen , about a two-hour drive south of berlin .
a visit to the infamous place reveals a chamber of horrors .
-lrb- 08.09.2006 -rrb- feedback feedback : do you think that former stasi spies should still be dismissed almost 20 years after german unification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
picture gallery a historical flash gallery leads you through from the division of germany to reunification .
externer link , ã  â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : german path to unity picture gallery demolished treasures east germany made significant contributions to modern architecture - but many have been torn down .
quiz of the week win a prize review the week 's articles for a chance to win a prize .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 09.07.2009 barroso gets official eu backing for second term as commission president großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : v for victory : barroso stands unopposed for a second term jose manuel barroso , the current european commission president , has received the official backing of the european union to serve a second five-year term , the eu 's swedish presidency said . " we now have a unanimous formal nomination on jose manuel barroso from all the heads of state and government , " said swedish prime minister fredrick reinfeldt , whose country currently holds the eu 's rotating presidency .
" the -lsb- eu -rsb- council has now taken its responsibility to finalize the nomination of the commission president , " he said in a statement .
" hopefully we will be able to , as soon as possible , move europe to solve the important tasks ahead of us such as the climate and financial crisis , " he added .
the decision to nominate barroso , coming after a so-called " silence procedure " over 48 hours during which none of the 27 member nations objected , formalizes a political agreement reached at a summit on june 18-19 .
barroso is the only publicly declared candidate for what is currently the eu 's most high-profile post .
his nomination still has to be endorsed by the european parliament , which next week is to hold its first session since elections in june .
eu diplomats say that the parliament is unlikely to vote on barroso 's nomination until september , since the second-largest group in the parliament , the socialist bloc , currently opposes the portuguese center-right politician 's re-appointment .
political enemies aim to hamper appointment the socialists have not yet put together a sufficiently powerful coalition to bloc his re-appointment but are pushing for an in-depth debate on barroso 's policies before a decision is taken .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barroso has drawn criticism for his ponderous commission barroso has been criticized for his commission 's slow reaction to the financial crisis last year , and he has natural political enemies outside of his center-right grouping , with the greens openly opposing him .
he came to office in july 2004 , emerging as a consensus candidate only after preferred nominees were ruled out .
he was dismissed by some at the time as a " lowest common denominator " unlikely to ruffle the feathers of big states .
the greens claim that the same is true today and that his return would only weaken the eu 's executive body .
they say the candidates from last time – belgian liberal guy verhofstadt or britain 's chris patten – would be better .
the european commission is responsible for drawing up legislation that impacts daily on the lives of almost half a billion europeans , as well as enforcing the rules already in place .
its president – who like the commissioners is appointed rather than elected – has significant leverage to influence legislative priorities .
the institution will have a budget of 138 billion euros -lrb- $ 193 billion -rrb- in 2010. nda / afp / dpa editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : eu leaders unanimously back barroso for second term meeting in brussels for a two-day summit , eu heads of state have agreed to give their undivided backing to european commission president jose manuel barroso 's bid for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- dw-world : eu leaders reach deal over lisbon treaty concessions for ireland ireland and the czech presidency of the european union have reached a breakthrough deal on a set of guarantees to convince irish voters to back the bloc 's stalled lisbon treaty , diplomats at a summit in brussels said .
-lrb- 19.06.2009 -rrb- dw-world : merkel , sarkozy back barroso 's bid to retain commission presidency french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel thursday said they supported the re-election of european commission head jose manuel barroso for a second five-year term .
-lrb- 11.06.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live journal - mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : radio d audio : audio : listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
dw-world : the olive harvest dw-world : the quintessential bulgarian dw-world : romanian countryside transformed by eu dw-world : prague - past and present dw-world : an ossie heads west dw-world : romania struggling through the crisis dw-world : the charm of budapest dw-world : greek challenge : tackle corruption dw-world : saying ' adios ' to spain after seven years dw-world : hardly politics as usual dw-world : discovering moldova 's hidden riches europe keep up with the latest in europe .
video : macedonia 's drug city video : belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.07.2009 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 09.07.2009 key ministers warn of a looming credit crunch in germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : banks are looking closely at businesses before lending germany is facing a serious credit crunch later this year , according to two key government ministers , who also hinted at possible central bank intervention to curb the threat . shunning party politics , finance minister peer steinbrueck -lrb- spd -rrb- and economics minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg -lrb- csu -rrb- warned that the country must " take -lrb- the credit crunch -rrb- seriously " and " prepare for difficult times " ahead .
in an interview published in the thursday edition of the frankfurter rundschau newspaper , steinbrueck said " we must take seriously , even very seriously , the threat of a credit crunch in the second half of this year . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steinbrueck -lrb- r -rrb- and guttenberg -lrb- m -rrb- do n't like what they see steinbrueck stressed that , at the moment , there was not a " general lack of credit " , but that certain sectors and companies were finding it harder to get loans .
guttenberg warned that credit conditions were deteriorating in europe 's largest economy and he told a press briefing in berlin that " it must to be clear to all : we must prepare for difficult times and we must do it very soon . " banks get flak for not lending guttenberg demanded more transparency from banks and urged lenders to provide more corporate liquidity , especially for larger , long-term investments that ultimately spur growth , jobs and profits .
the chairman of the board of state-owned kfw bank group , ulrich schroeder , said there were clear signs of a credit crunch .
" the market has completely dried up ; we need more long-term financing , " he said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : with no money in the till , businesses can not invest as a possible remedy , steinbrueck floated the idea that the german central bank , the bundesbank , could buy up corporate debt , if the situation worsened .
acknowledging that a final decision on the matter belonged with the central bank , the finance minister said " the bundesbank and the real economy would thus be in direct contact , which would be a first . "
government intervention in the private sector is already a political hot potato , but buying up corporate debt would almost certainly ignite a firestorm of criticism .
that is probably why in the last few weeks - hoping to avoid that scenario - steinbrueck and guttenberg have preferred to apply increased pressure on german commercial banks to begin more liberal lending to business and industry . after all , they argue , the banks have received ample funds from the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- at historically low interest rates .
the two ministers have even accused commercial banks of hoarding billions of euros to make other investments they deemed safer - and more profitable - than lending to corporate clients. gb / dpa / afp / reuters editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dw-world : german politicians step up pressure on banks to start lending politicians of all parties are united in their determination to force german banks to make credit available .
financial institutes remain reluctant to lend despite having received billions in finanical aid .
-lrb- 05.07.2009 -rrb- dw-world : german parliament approves " bad bank " plan germany ’ s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , has passed a bill for the creation of " bad banks " to absorb toxic assets and clean up balance sheets at financial institutions caught up in the financial crisis .
-lrb- 03.07.2009 -rrb- feedback feedback : are banks too stingy with credit ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
picture of the day dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : news audio : audio : listen live european business week audio : listen to the latest edition of european business week stock exchange on demand service dw-world : video on demand dw-world : audio on demand dw-world : audio / video podcasting today in history 1926 : bauhaus dessau news quiz win a prize review recent articles from dw-world.de for a chance to win a prize . © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bbc news -pipe- special reports -pipe- china riot city ' under control ' british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:14 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 05:14 uk china riot city ' under control ' please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left 156 people dead .
president hu jintao cut short his visit to the g8 summit to tackle the crisis .
fiona werge reports .
see also han welcome security forces -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- han chinese rampage against uighurs -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- angry uighurs defy chinese police -lrb- 00.59 -rrb- riots leave many dead in china -lrb- 01.26 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio ceremony to mark hiroshima 65 years on ' there 's no help here from the government ' obama : us car industry ' patriotic ' puerto rico struggles in the downturn one-minute world news editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- special reports -pipe- china riot city ' under control ' accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:14 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 05:14 uk china riot city ' under control ' please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left 156 people dead .
president hu jintao cut short his visit to the g8 summit to tackle the crisis .
fiona werge reports .
see also han welcome security forces -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- han chinese rampage against uighurs -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- angry uighurs defy chinese police -lrb- 00.59 -rrb- riots leave many dead in china -lrb- 01.26 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' china visit sparks obama mania praise for child migrants ' spirit one-minute world news obama courts china on asia visit editor 's choice madoff belongings sold at auction the pain of being a ' forgotten australian ' german goalkeeper 's memorial service plane crashes into vip lounge man drives $ 1m bugatti into marsh skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- special reports -pipe- china riot city ' under control ' accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 04:14 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 05:14 uk china riot city ' under control ' please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left 156 people dead .
president hu jintao cut short his visit to the g8 summit to tackle the crisis .
fiona werge reports .
see also han welcome security forces -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- han chinese rampage against uighurs -lrb- 00.44 -rrb- angry uighurs defy chinese police -lrb- 00.59 -rrb- riots leave many dead in china -lrb- 01.26 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio hollywood deal after youtube post japanese man marries virtual bride father murdered his daughter for loving the wrong man arrest in brazil needle boy case troublesome snowfalls across europe editor 's choice japanese man marries virtual bride young reporter quizzes kenya 's environment minister pretty or a peril ? : europe snow philippine volcano ' still a threat ' waste not : ways to help russia recycle skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- philippines agrees to rebel talks bbc news / asia-pacific graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk philippines agrees to rebel talks the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : philippines communists mark 40th -lrb- 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- philippines rebel in dutch court -lrb- 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news - philippines agrees to rebel talks accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version philippines agrees to rebel talks peace talks have been suspended since 2004 the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also philippines communists mark 40th 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines rebel in dutch court 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific country profile : the philippines 08 dec 09 -pipe- country profiles top asia-pacific stories anger over jailed china dissident fears grow for hmong in thailand death row clemency plea to china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened in pictures : winter wonderland firecrackers let off on us plane how bees perform perfect landing another ' bad cholesterol ' found having a laugh in india most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened firecrackers let off on us plane us condemns taliban soldier video pope gives address after assault bin laden 's daughter ' is in iran ' eurostar ' ignored safety rules ' hp camera ' ca n't see ' black faces in pictures : us midwest snowstorms central us under blizzard alerts schools allowed to ban face veils having a laugh in india most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened the moment the pope was knocked down the queen 's christmas message taliban video ' shows us soldier ' footage of pope attack woman in 2008 one-minute world news us soldier in hostage video royal family gathers at sandringham how bees perform perfect landing snowstorms envelope us midwest pope gives address after assault most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis new hope in aceh five years of recovery from deadly tsunami having a laugh the pitfalls of making comedy work in india in pictures snowstorms bring chaos for millions in us midwest most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,857 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - philippines agrees to rebel talks british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version philippines agrees to rebel talks peace talks have been suspended since 2004 the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also communists mark 40th with call to arms 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines rebel in dutch court 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines country profile 11 jun 10 -pipe- country profiles most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened global spam levels suddenly fall furore over ' censored ' huck finn renault warns of threat to assets homeless man with radio voice given second chance ' bad management ' led to bp spill china stealth plane ' years away ' starbucks unveils revamped logo day in pictures : 6 january 2011 hackers uncover secret ps3 keys haiti warned over rape in camps most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened homeless man 's radio voice is a hit air passengers thwart hijack attempt rail announcer 's ' sexy ' accent one-minute world news swedes ' want king to abdicate ' what apple 's ipad can do footage of tawny owl lake rescue chemical plant fire in holland snakes and crocodiles in australia 's floods aerial view of flood-hit rockhampton most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 154,971 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - philippines agrees to rebel talks british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version philippines agrees to rebel talks peace talks have been suspended since 2004 the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also communists mark 40th with call to arms 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines rebel in dutch court 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines country profile 11 jun 10 -pipe- country profiles top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened diamonds hint at ' earliest life ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : chile mine rescue joy as chile miners reach surface porn studios close over hiv scare the big picture : lightning strike in pictures : first chile miners rescued pentagon warns on us gay ruling china elders in free speech plea germans break silence over immigration new nose for taliban victim aisha lebanon crowds cheer ahmadinejad most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ninth rescued miner emerges first chile miner rescued after 69 days second chile miner 's euphoria at surface 12th chile miner reaches surface 69 days : the miners ' long wait one-minute world news serbian fans arrested after euro qualifier match one-minute world news cox arquette split and more news chile miners ' escape capsule tested most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 91,400 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - philippines agrees to rebel talks british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version philippines agrees to rebel talks peace talks have been suspended since 2004 the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also communists mark 40th with call to arms 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines rebel in dutch court 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines country profile 11 jun 10 -pipe- country profiles top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened benin tanker explosion kills 54 why flying with children is no picnic most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened boy named hitler to stay in care mandela aide ' got campbell gems ' japan ship damage ' was terrorism ' france starts removing roma camps pakistan 's flooding sweeps south nz judge orders ' odd ' name change footballer in vow to clear name day in pictures pakistan bond ' unbreakable ' - pm blackberry ' ban ' in saudi arabia most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep police probed after ' pensioner 's car smashed ' wyclef on his presidential ambitions ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' wine vending machines launch in us monty python team caught in early home movie ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' one-minute world news urban farming bid to revive detroit marlon king : ' i did not sexually assault a female ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 77,843 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - philippines agrees to rebel talks british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 05:32 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:32 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version philippines agrees to rebel talks peace talks have been suspended since 2004 the philippines government plans to resume peace talks with communist rebels next month , officials have said .
the agreement to return to talks was reached after the government promised not to arrest rebel negotiators or demand an immediate ceasefire .
the last round of talks collapsed in 2004 amid communist anger at being included on us and european lists of terrorist groups .
the philippines ' communist insurgency has lasted four decades .
in 2005 , the government suspended the joint agreement on immunity and safety guarantee , which had protected 97 rebel negotiators and consultants from arrest at the talks and when they travelled to consult rural communities .
pre-conditions agreed avelino razon jr , the presidential adviser to the talks , said the government would renew that agreement from 17 july .
the immunity agreement also suspends pending criminal prosecutions against rebels involved in the talks , he said .
executive secretary eduardo ermita added that the usual ceasefire demand had been dropped .
" we have enough good reasons to agree to the resumption of the talks .
we are very , very hopeful , " he said .
he said the rebels had given in on their demand that their organisation 's and leaders ' names be taken off the terrorist black lists first .
chief rebel negotiator luis jalandoni said that talks may resume as early as next month in the norwegian capital of oslo .
norway , which has been brokering the negotiations , arranged an informal meeting of both sides last month in the netherlands , where the chairman of the communist party of the philippines , jose maria sison , lives in exile .
it is understood the agreements on pre-conditions were reached then .
the communist new people 's army has been conducting sporadic attacks in recent months .
it is accused of " taxing " landowners and others to help fund its operations .
it reached a peak membership of about 25,000 during the 1980s , but membership is now estimated to be less than 5,000 .
the communist party of the philippines -lrb- cpp -rrb- marked its 40th anniversary in december 2008 with a call to arms .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also communists mark 40th with call to arms 26 dec 08 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines rebel in dutch court 31 aug 07 -pipe- asia-pacific philippines country profile 11 jun 10 -pipe- country profiles top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier ' medics ' killed in afghanistan best man goes missing in shropshire lake after wedding inside castro 's revolutionary hideout adultery case woman attacks iran n zealand beating ' was a dance ' shot uk medical worker identified woman shown her own rape on phone muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened on board the flight that bombed hiroshima five minutes with : hanif kureishi one-minute world news flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' ' poo-powered ' car hits the road monty python team caught in early home movie crowds gather for tall ships race ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' military service and sacrifice in iowa most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 43,757 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- website 's support after suicides accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:45 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:45 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version website 's support after suicides the website describes the effects of suicide on family and friends young people who have lost someone close to them because of suicide have set up a website to give advice and support to vulnerable youngsters .
teenagers in bridgend came up with the idea after more than 20 young people apparently took their own lives in the county over the past two years .
they hope the information will appeal to their age group and contains myths and facts about suicide .
the choose life web pages are being launched on bridgend council 's website .
they also contain advice on where young people can get help and personal statements about the effects of suicide on those left behind .
the young people behind the project said they hoped also to use social networking sites to direct people to their website .
" ' it 's a positive way of giving information to young people that 's easily accessible and it offers help to people who may be going through difficult times , " they said .
if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others rhys , 17 " we thought by putting it on a website it would be more appealing to people our age .
the intention now is to put it onto social networking sites to provide the information to a wider audience . "
one of the youngsters , 17-year-old rhys , said he and his friends decided to create the website because they did not think there was enough access to information about the effects of suicide .
" losing someone close to you is indescribable really , " he said .
" the devastating effects it had on myself , my close friends and family , it does bring you to tears just thinking about it .
" i think if this can be prevented , why should someone suffer from it ?
" i did n't have a clue about any of the websites to help or people who you can go to for help , and this is why me and my mates felt it was a good idea to create a site which you could access and further help yourself .
" i was devastated and i was angry ... there was n't something like choose life already set up . "
we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love jj williams , former rugby star he said he believed education and raising awareness could help prevent more people taking their own lives .
" if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others and that there 's a way out , there 's a way to prevent it , " he added .
rugby star support the teenagers approached the bridgend local service board -lrb- lsb -rrb- , which has helped them with their idea , along with bridgend council 's educational psychology service .
the website is being supported by former welsh rugby star jj williams , who said : " we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love .
i really commend the students for what they are doing . "
lsb chair dr jo farrar , who is also chief executive of bridgend council , said they were keen to help the " inspirational " students .
" they , more than anyone else , know how it feels to lose people they are close to , so they are best placed to reach out to their peers , " she said .
" their pages contain excellent advice , as well as some very stark messages about suicide and are written in a way that we hope will appeal to young people , not just in this area but all over wales and the uk . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor south east wales find out more about what is going on across the region bridgend deaths latest stories rock concert to tackle suicides support after third village death tragedy area 's media invitation young deaths coverage questioned samaritans offer street support parents suicide talks encouraged hanged woman ' wanted to be found ' complaint over ' suicide ' coverage shocked community seeks answers suicide plan ' overdue ' coroner denies 13 suicides linked suicide spate ' masks ' wider worry suicide training call for schools web review examines suicides links samaritans community advice and listening line papyrus childline video and audio related internet links choose life bridgend council bridgend local service board bridgend educational psychology service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories arrest after man dies tobogganing coin depot robbery suspect bailed puppy rescued after 10m sea fall most popular stories now shared read watched / listened palm oil products and the weekly shop man in hiding betrayed by pet dog frog reveals secret of monogamy singing ' rewires ' damaged brain topless tobogganing in germany most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened obama unveils new healthcare plan tv man gave up dead lover 's name man in hiding betrayed by pet dog odeon confirms wonderland boycott guilty plea in new york bomb plot swiss man surrenders to libyans threat from e-waste ' mountains ' eu condemns dubai passport plot day in pictures bullying charity faces complaints most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music israeli drone ' can reach iran ' one-minute world news sky drone ' spots ' taliban bombs bafta red carpet highlights how british army is tackling ied threat highlights from the bafta awards nato defends air strike team most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis earth watch no sanctuary for whalers and whale-huggers day in pictures eye-catching images from around the world lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues went on strike most popular now most popular now -pipe- 55,157 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- website 's support after suicides british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:45 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:45 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version website 's support after suicides the website describes the effects of suicide on family and friends young people who have lost someone close to them because of suicide have set up a website to give advice and support to vulnerable youngsters .
teenagers in bridgend came up with the idea after more than 20 young people apparently took their own lives in the county over the past two years .
they hope the information will appeal to their age group and contains myths and facts about suicide .
the choose life web pages are being launched on bridgend council 's website .
they also contain advice on where young people can get help and personal statements about the effects of suicide on those left behind .
the young people behind the project said they hoped also to use social networking sites to direct people to their website .
" ' it 's a positive way of giving information to young people that 's easily accessible and it offers help to people who may be going through difficult times , " they said .
if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others rhys , 17 " we thought by putting it on a website it would be more appealing to people our age .
the intention now is to put it onto social networking sites to provide the information to a wider audience . "
one of the youngsters , 17-year-old rhys , said he and his friends decided to create the website because they did not think there was enough access to information about the effects of suicide .
" losing someone close to you is indescribable really , " he said .
" the devastating effects it had on myself , my close friends and family , it does bring you to tears just thinking about it .
" i think if this can be prevented , why should someone suffer from it ?
" i did n't have a clue about any of the websites to help or people who you can go to for help , and this is why me and my mates felt it was a good idea to create a site which you could access and further help yourself .
" i was devastated and i was angry ... there was n't something like choose life already set up . "
we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love jj williams , former rugby star he said he believed education and raising awareness could help prevent more people taking their own lives .
" if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others and that there 's a way out , there 's a way to prevent it , " he added .
rugby star support the teenagers approached the bridgend local service board -lrb- lsb -rrb- , which has helped them with their idea , along with bridgend council 's educational psychology service .
the website is being supported by former welsh rugby star jj williams , who said : " we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love .
i really commend the students for what they are doing . "
lsb chair dr jo farrar , who is also chief executive of bridgend council , said they were keen to help the " inspirational " students .
" they , more than anyone else , know how it feels to lose people they are close to , so they are best placed to reach out to their peers , " she said .
" their pages contain excellent advice , as well as some very stark messages about suicide and are written in a way that we hope will appeal to young people , not just in this area but all over wales and the uk . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor south east wales find out more about what is going on across the region bridgend deaths latest stories rock concert to tackle suicides support after third village death tragedy area 's media invitation young deaths coverage questioned samaritans offer street support parents suicide talks encouraged hanged woman ' wanted to be found ' complaint over ' suicide ' coverage shocked community seeks answers suicide plan ' overdue ' coroner denies 13 suicides linked suicide spate ' masks ' wider worry suicide training call for schools web review examines suicides links samaritans community advice and listening line papyrus childline video and audio related internet links choose life bridgend council bridgend local service board bridgend educational psychology service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories man ' threw toddler against wall ' venue tours for sight impaired dizaei accused of assault in jail most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier shot uk medical worker identified iran ' lying ' about murder charges , says ashtiani foreign medical workers among 10 killed in afghanistan a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout woman shown her own rape on phone pakistan issues flooding ' red alert ' for sindh province muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp best man missing after lake swim most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep on board the flight that bombed hiroshima unnamed page president zardari on fighting terror ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' unnamed page monty python team caught in early home movie foreign medical workers among 10 killed inside castro 's mountain hideout ' government is dealing with crisis ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,229 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- website 's support after suicides british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:45 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:45 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version website 's support after suicides the website describes the effects of suicide on family and friends young people who have lost someone close to them because of suicide have set up a website to give advice and support to vulnerable youngsters .
teenagers in bridgend came up with the idea after more than 20 young people apparently took their own lives in the county over the past two years .
they hope the information will appeal to their age group and contains myths and facts about suicide .
the choose life web pages are being launched on bridgend council 's website .
they also contain advice on where young people can get help and personal statements about the effects of suicide on those left behind .
the young people behind the project said they hoped also to use social networking sites to direct people to their website .
" ' it 's a positive way of giving information to young people that 's easily accessible and it offers help to people who may be going through difficult times , " they said .
if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others rhys , 17 " we thought by putting it on a website it would be more appealing to people our age .
the intention now is to put it onto social networking sites to provide the information to a wider audience . "
one of the youngsters , 17-year-old rhys , said he and his friends decided to create the website because they did not think there was enough access to information about the effects of suicide .
" losing someone close to you is indescribable really , " he said .
" the devastating effects it had on myself , my close friends and family , it does bring you to tears just thinking about it .
" i think if this can be prevented , why should someone suffer from it ?
" i did n't have a clue about any of the websites to help or people who you can go to for help , and this is why me and my mates felt it was a good idea to create a site which you could access and further help yourself .
" i was devastated and i was angry ... there was n't something like choose life already set up . "
we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love jj williams , former rugby star he said he believed education and raising awareness could help prevent more people taking their own lives .
" if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others and that there 's a way out , there 's a way to prevent it , " he added .
rugby star support the teenagers approached the bridgend local service board -lrb- lsb -rrb- , which has helped them with their idea , along with bridgend council 's educational psychology service .
the website is being supported by former welsh rugby star jj williams , who said : " we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love .
i really commend the students for what they are doing . "
lsb chair dr jo farrar , who is also chief executive of bridgend council , said they were keen to help the " inspirational " students .
" they , more than anyone else , know how it feels to lose people they are close to , so they are best placed to reach out to their peers , " she said .
" their pages contain excellent advice , as well as some very stark messages about suicide and are written in a way that we hope will appeal to young people , not just in this area but all over wales and the uk . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor south east wales find out more about what is going on across the region bridgend deaths latest stories rock concert to tackle suicides support after third village death tragedy area 's media invitation young deaths coverage questioned samaritans offer street support parents suicide talks encouraged hanged woman ' wanted to be found ' complaint over ' suicide ' coverage shocked community seeks answers suicide plan ' overdue ' coroner denies 13 suicides linked suicide spate ' masks ' wider worry suicide training call for schools web review examines suicides links samaritans community advice and listening line papyrus childline video and audio related internet links choose life bridgend council bridgend local service board bridgend educational psychology service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories jobs fear in companies house cuts tram driver summonsed over death daily new york flight talks ' end ' most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water einstein and newton ' had autism ' in video : bramham 2010 course kingsolver crowned orange winner bafta tv awards 2010 : the winners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora google accused of criminal intent afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 boys deny younger sister 's rape iran dismisses new un sanctions is that woman pregnant or fat ?
top prize for swiss solar pioneer lohan violates alcohol court ban romanian stowaway on private jet tight finish for dutch election most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake one-minute world news haiti cctv catches quake impact sex and the city 2 reviewed by mark kermode corden in spat with sir patrick bbc investigates iphone complaints activist : interception was ' horrific ' mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' snake found under van 's bonnet most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 30,414 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- website 's support after suicides accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:45 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:45 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version website 's support after suicides the website describes the effects of suicide on family and friends young people who have lost someone close to them because of suicide have set up a website to give advice and support to vulnerable youngsters .
teenagers in bridgend came up with the idea after more than 20 young people apparently took their own lives in the county over the past two years .
they hope the information will appeal to their age group and contains myths and facts about suicide .
the choose life web pages are being launched on bridgend council 's website .
they also contain advice on where young people can get help and personal statements about the effects of suicide on those left behind .
the young people behind the project said they hoped also to use social networking sites to direct people to their website .
" ' it 's a positive way of giving information to young people that 's easily accessible and it offers help to people who may be going through difficult times , " they said .
if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others rhys , 17 " we thought by putting it on a website it would be more appealing to people our age .
the intention now is to put it onto social networking sites to provide the information to a wider audience . "
one of the youngsters , 17-year-old rhys , said he and his friends decided to create the website because they did not think there was enough access to information about the effects of suicide .
" losing someone close to you is indescribable really , " he said .
" the devastating effects it had on myself , my close friends and family , it does bring you to tears just thinking about it .
" i think if this can be prevented , why should someone suffer from it ?
" i did n't have a clue about any of the websites to help or people who you can go to for help , and this is why me and my mates felt it was a good idea to create a site which you could access and further help yourself .
" i was devastated and i was angry ... there was n't something like choose life already set up . "
we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love jj williams , former rugby star he said he believed education and raising awareness could help prevent more people taking their own lives .
" if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others and that there 's a way out , there 's a way to prevent it , " he added .
rugby star support the teenagers approached the bridgend local service board -lrb- lsb -rrb- , which has helped them with their idea , along with bridgend council 's educational psychology service .
the website is being supported by former welsh rugby star jj williams , who said : " we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love .
i really commend the students for what they are doing . "
lsb chair dr jo farrar , who is also chief executive of bridgend council , said they were keen to help the " inspirational " students .
" they , more than anyone else , know how it feels to lose people they are close to , so they are best placed to reach out to their peers , " she said .
" their pages contain excellent advice , as well as some very stark messages about suicide and are written in a way that we hope will appeal to young people , not just in this area but all over wales and the uk . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor south east wales find out more about what is going on across the region bridgend deaths latest stories rock concert to tackle suicides support after third village death tragedy area 's media invitation young deaths coverage questioned samaritans offer street support parents suicide talks encouraged hanged woman ' wanted to be found ' complaint over ' suicide ' coverage shocked community seeks answers suicide plan ' overdue ' coroner denies 13 suicides linked suicide spate ' masks ' wider worry suicide training call for schools web review examines suicides links samaritans community advice and listening line papyrus childline video and audio related internet links choose life bridgend council bridgend local service board bridgend educational psychology service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top south east wales stories ' bitter ' ex ' killed girl ' in fire salon ' concerns ' before burning two teenagers killed in car crash most popular stories now shared read watched / listened man killed wife ' during a dream ' t-mobile staff sold personal data tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' two kite surfers jump over pier germany arrests top rwanda rebels most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man killed wife ' during a dream ' lhc nears restart after repairs ' ex-nazi ' charged with 58 murders day in pictures two kite surfers jump over pier t-mobile staff sold personal data taliban leader ' flees pakistan ' somali pirates free spanish boat israel approves 900 settler homes tokyo ' world 's best place to eat ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened somalia still top of corruption list world domino record set on tv conjoined twins op ' successful ' one-minute world news army 's new night vision equipment antarctic ice traps cruise ship cctv of raid before fatal crash tour of world 's fastest steam car simon 's cat creator on web hit storms hit spanish holiday islands most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis centre stage how the velvet revolution was led from a theatre day in pictures striking images from around the world earth watch climate treaty explores the meaning of ' binding ' most popular now most popular now -pipe- 120,357 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- south east wales -pipe- website 's support after suicides bbc news / south east wales graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine 05:45 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:45 uk website 's support after suicides young people who have lost someone close to them because of suicide have set up a website to give advice and support to vulnerable youngsters .
teenagers in bridgend came up with the idea after more than 20 young people apparently took their own lives in the county over the past two years .
they hope the information will appeal to their age group and contains myths and facts about suicide .
the choose life web pages are being launched on bridgend council 's website .
they also contain advice on where young people can get help and personal statements about the effects of suicide on those left behind .
the young people behind the project said they hoped also to use social networking sites to direct people to their website .
" ' it 's a positive way of giving information to young people that 's easily accessible and it offers help to people who may be going through difficult times , " they said . "
if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others " rhys , 17 " we thought by putting it on a website it would be more appealing to people our age .
the intention now is to put it onto social networking sites to provide the information to a wider audience . "
one of the youngsters , 17-year-old rhys , said he and his friends decided to create the website because they did not think there was enough access to information about the effects of suicide .
" losing someone close to you is indescribable really , " he said .
" the devastating effects it had on myself , my close friends and family , it does bring you to tears just thinking about it .
" i think if this can be prevented , why should someone suffer from it ?
" i did n't have a clue about any of the websites to help or people who you can go to for help , and this is why me and my mates felt it was a good idea to create a site which you could access and further help yourself .
" i was devastated and i was angry ... there was n't something like choose life already set up . "
" we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love " jj williams , former rugby star he said he believed education and raising awareness could help prevent more people taking their own lives .
" if people are educated more on the topic then they would have a few more seconds to think and realise the impact it has on others and that there 's a way out , there 's a way to prevent it , " he added .
rugby star support the teenagers approached the bridgend local service board -lrb- lsb -rrb- , which has helped them with their idea , along with bridgend council 's educational psychology service .
the website is being supported by former welsh rugby star jj williams , who said : " we have seen some terrible things written about this area , but it 's not the bridgend county i know and love .
i really commend the students for what they are doing . "
lsb chair dr jo farrar , who is also chief executive of bridgend council , said they were keen to help the " inspirational " students .
" they , more than anyone else , know how it feels to lose people they are close to , so they are best placed to reach out to their peers , " she said .
" their pages contain excellent advice , as well as some very stark messages about suicide and are written in a way that we hope will appeal to young people , not just in this area but all over wales and the uk . "
e-mail this to a friend related internet links choose life bridgend council bridgend local service board bridgend educational psychology service the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version climate role for only polar bear mercedes will be transported in a modified rhino crate the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change .
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands bear necessity to move mercedes 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife tigers burn bright with new cubs 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands soldiers build polar bear 's home 19 may 09 -pipe- england what are zoos for ? 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine related bbc links polar bears related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top highlands and islands stories attention span concern for trial staff and patients ill with bug vote on taking over shut hospital most popular stories now shared read watched / listened frog reveals secret of monogamy peanut allergy ' cure ' put to test man in hiding betrayed by pet dog singing ' rewires ' damaged brain beer with 32 % strength launched most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened man in hiding betrayed by pet dog obama unveils new healthcare plan iran warning over ' persian gulf ' threat from e-waste ' mountains ' odeon confirms wonderland boycott swiss man surrenders to libyans day in pictures eu condemns dubai passport plot tory mp resigns as charity patron ' if we crash , the whole company goes down ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany israeli drone ' can reach iran ' close-up : bulgaria 's special brand of folk music highlights from the bafta awards fresh madeira landslide warning portugal to mourn madeira victims father on false paedophilia facebook posts one-minute world news city airport use brush to de-ice plane space shuttle endeavour lands most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis lives in our hands lufthansa pilot on why his colleagues are striking day in pictures some striking images from around the world avatar v hurt battle of the exes : an oscar rival for the 3d juggernaut ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,214 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version climate role for only polar bear mercedes will be transported in a modified rhino crate the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change .
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands bear necessity to move mercedes 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife tigers burn bright with new cubs 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands soldiers build polar bear 's home 19 may 09 -pipe- england what are zoos for ? 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine related bbc links polar bears related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top highlands and islands stories scenery highlighted in job advert rowers take break in high winds alexander tells of busy workload most popular stories now shared read watched / listened is that woman pregnant or fat ?
tea ' healthier ' drink than water kingsolver crowned orange winner country profile : the netherlands in pictures : jerusalem 's african quarter most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora google accused of criminal intent afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 is that woman pregnant or fat ?
boys deny younger sister 's rape dutch election in tight finish fox pictured after twins attack top prize for swiss solar pioneer romanian stowaway on private jet un approves new sanctions on iran most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake corden in spat with sir patrick cheryl thanks her dentist at awards bbc investigates iphone complaints one-minute world news mexico struggles with ' war on drugs ' sa fans go ' crazy ' at team parade haiti cctv catches quake impact solar panels offered free of charge most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 60,043 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version climate role for only polar bear mercedes will be transported in a modified rhino crate the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change .
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands bear necessity to move mercedes 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife tigers burn bright with new cubs 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands soldiers build polar bear 's home 19 may 09 -pipe- england what are zoos for ? 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine related bbc links polar bears related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top highlands and islands stories warning to drivers over icy roads coastguard aids workers in snow world event could earn north £ 2m most popular stories now shared read watched / listened zambia pushes for connected future brazil 's chinese bikini problem most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened brazil 's chinese bikini problem shot us congresswoman ' critical ' chinese vice premier on uk visit seychelles haven of the giant tortoise mixed-sex handshakes banned south sudan votes on independence shoplifting cheeky girl cautioned french niger hostages ' executed ' mp backs dna testing in jo murder pm attacks ' murky ' football world most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' i played dead to escape gunman ' one-minute world news congresswoman ' was target ' in shooting obama : ' tragedy for entire country ' one-minute world news ' historic moment ' for south sudan arizona police hunt second suspect the ' huge cost ' of agassi 's tennis success touch screen allows multiple users more dead birds fall from us sky most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 58,457 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version climate role for only polar bear mercedes will be transported in a modified rhino crate the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change .
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands bear necessity to move mercedes 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife tigers burn bright with new cubs 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands soldiers build polar bear 's home 19 may 09 -pipe- england what are zoos for ? 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine related bbc links polar bears related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top highlands and islands stories rise in number of homeless claims ' molested ' man 's player concerns support for st kilda centre site most popular stories now shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' meditation ' eases heart disease ' us shuttle takes worms into space day in pictures nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened plastic chemicals ' feminise boys ' us shuttle takes worms into space zambia ' porn ' reporter acquitted brown plans afghan handover talks palin says 2012 run not on radar new realities for ancient timbuktu conjoined twins op ' going well ' china joins supercomputer elite on patrol in mexico 's most dangerous city iran plays down un nuclear report most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened mexico 's most dangerous city nasa 's atlantis shuttle blasts off brown on afghan withdrawal timetable successful test flight for ares record breaking ' arrow ' sky dive obama addresses students in china nasa rocket prepares to fly agutter 's tribute to ' generous ' woodward karzai ' must fight corruption ' actor woodwood has died aged 79 most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis timbuktu terror ?
fears al-qaeda is bound for mali 's fabled desert town roll call campaign to register world 's invisible children deadly streets bbc on patrol with police in mexico 's murder capital most popular now most popular now -pipe- 22,871 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day bbc news channel news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version climate role for only polar bear mercedes will be transported in a modified rhino crate the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change .
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands bear necessity to move mercedes 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife tigers burn bright with new cubs 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands soldiers build polar bear 's home 19 may 09 -pipe- england what are zoos for ? 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine related bbc links polar bears related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top highlands and islands stories plans to build turbines at nigg avalanche service 's season starts man in court for firearm incident most popular stories now shared read watched / listened unholy row over virgin mary image youtube post leads to movie deal experts crack cancer ' gene code ' warning over heavy snow forecast father jailed for ' honour ' murder most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened iraq rebels ' hack into us drones ' youtube post leads to movie deal airline 's collapse strands 4,500 court blocks ba christmas strike unholy row over virgin mary image father jailed for ' honour ' murder ' boss of bosses ' killed in mexico churchill 's unpaid india bill on show warning over heavy snow forecast ship goes down off lebanese coast most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened hollywood deal after youtube post japanese man marries virtual bride snow falls across europe arrest in brazil needle boy case one-minute world news father murdered his daughter for loving the wrong man philippine volcano ' still a threat ' heavy snow expected , says bbc weather unite reacts to high court ruling mexican forces kill drug lord most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis televangelist star muslim tv preacher with global audience of millions churchillian debt british wartime leader 's unpaid bill at india club be sceptical !
keep asking climate questions , says bbc ethical man most popular now most popular now -pipe- 61,400 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- scotland -pipe- highlands and islands -pipe- climate role for only polar bear bbc news / highlands and islands graphics version bbc sport home news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine 05:49 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:49 uk climate role for only polar bear the only polar bear in a uk zoo will be used to help educate visitors to her new home in the highlands .
preparations are being made to move mercedes from edinburgh to the highland wildlife park at kincraig .
the park 's doug richardson said information on climate change and its effects on wildlife would be set up around the animal 's enclosure .
a crate used for moving rhino has been modified to transport the bear by road in late august or early september .
mr richardson , animal collection manager , said : " polar bear are seen as the flagship species for warnings of global climate change . "
the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records " doug richardson highland wildlife park " something we plan to do on this big issue is to centre a lot of our interpretive material on climate change around mercedes . "
he expects the bear to be a huge draw , adding to an increase in visitor numbers seen following the birth of three amur tiger cubs .
mr richardson said : " the cubs have seen the park breaking all sorts of records in terms of entries and sales at the gift shop .
" the arrival of the polar bear will be the icing on the cake . "
he said the more money that could be generated , the more funds could be channelled into the park 's research work and conservation projects .
new enclosure mr richardson added that mercedes would not need be drugged for her journey to the highlands .
the crate has been attached to part of her enclosure at edinburgh zoo so the bear becomes familiar with it .
it has also been designed to allow air flow and provide shade for the animal if the weather is hot .
mr richardson said : " moving polar bears is quite straightforward and they do not stress out particularly easily so long as there are people around them that they are familiar with . "
rescued from churchill in canada , mercedes is thought to be 27-years-old .
polar bears can live into their early 30s .
an appeal was launched last month by the royal zoological society of scotland to raise £ 50,000 to fund her move north .
original estimates put the cost of a new enclosure at £ 300,000 but a team of soldiers helped build the enclosure , which reduced the cost to £ 75,000 .
the society has also raised £ 25,000 through donations .
e-mail this to a friend related to this story : zoo tigers ' key ' to amur survival -lrb- 07 jul 09 -pipe- highlands and islands -rrb- bear necessity to move mercedes -lrb- 16 jun 09 -pipe- edinburgh , east and fife -rrb- tigers burn bright with new cubs -lrb- 16 jun 09 -pipe- highlands and islands -rrb- soldiers build polar bear 's home -lrb- 19 may 09 -pipe- england -rrb- what are zoos for ? -lrb- 08 jan 08 -pipe- magazine -rrb- related internet links edinburgh zoo highland wildlife park the territorial army polar bears the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites search bbc news : news front page -pipe- africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- uk -pipe- business -pipe- health -pipe- science & environment -pipe- technology -pipe- entertainment -pipe- also in the news -pipe- have your say -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- uk politics -pipe- education -pipe- magazine newswatch -pipe- notes -pipe- contact us -pipe- about bbc news -pipe- profiles -pipe- history ^ back to top -pipe- bbc sport home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- contact us -pipe- help -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- ' change needed ' to tackle poverty british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:51 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:51 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' change needed ' to tackle poverty butetown in cardiff is one of the areas to receive communities first help a flagship programme to tackle poverty is unlikely to meet its objectives without significant change , a watchdog has said .
a review by the auditor general for wales said communities first must be a clearer priority for ministers and councils if it is to succeed .
around £ 214m has been spent in eight years on the scheme but jeremy colman said it was not monitored properly .
the assembly government said there was room for improvement .
communities first was launched in 2001 to provide funding to the most deprived areas in wales , such as parts of rhyl , merthyr tydfil and butetown in cardiff .
it aims to involve local people in deciding what is needed to improve their area and support them in making it happen .
since the programme 's launch in 2001 , local partnerships have been set up to coordinate a wide range of activities , such as health and well-being events , community safety promotions , youth projects , training courses and environmental clean ups , in the areas they represent .
the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils jeremy colman , auditor general for wales but , the report said , it was not until 2007 that the assembly government took steps to monitor whether these partnerships were being run as intended .
following reviews of the programme , it has improved the way it manages the different projects and the auditor general said that local communities have , generally , benefited from these partnerships and the activities they are responsible for .
however , mr colman said the assembly government could not demonstrate how far communities first is meeting its " very ambitious and challenging " objectives because it had not monitored the programme properly .
the report said to improve the way the programme is delivered , the assembly government should make it a " clearer priority " across its own departments .
it also recommended that the assembly government provide additional support to the community projects , while working closer with councils and other public bodies .
parts of rhyl are among the most deprived in wales mr colman said communities first had " delivered local benefits " .
" but eight years into the programme the assembly government is still not tracking the full extent to which the programme is tackling deprivation and improving living conditions for those in poverty , " he said .
" the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils , so they maximise their contribution to the programme .
it also needs to improve the priority given to communities first by its own departments . "
the assembly government said it would look at the findings of the report carefully .
a spokesman said : " communities first is a long term initiative to tackle the difficult and entrenched issues faced by the most deprived areas in wales .
" we have established nearly 160 partnerships that are helping to improve their communities through providing training , delivering youth projects or making their areas safer .
" however , we recognise that improvements have been necessary and the report acknowledges that we have made significant progress in key areas .
" for example , in the way we allocate funding , monitor and manage partnerships ' progress , and encourage them to focus more on what they need to achieve . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also five deprived areas share £ 2.5m 14 jan 09 -pipe- mid wales deprived resort town to lose fund 07 aug 08 -pipe- north east wales ' time to deliver ' on regeneration 30 jan 08 -pipe- wales wales ' most deprived areas named 09 jul 08 -pipe- wales related internet links communities first auditor general for wales welsh assembly government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' farmers ' ' badger cull disaster ' funeral of family after home fire most popular stories now shared read watched / listened south african rape survey shock most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' alien ' planet found in milky way ' i hated my face in the mirror ' camera takes photos around corner shock as sa ' rape victim ' charged six states to miss nobel ceremony sweden seeks assange in rape case dentist admits to double murder irish republic ' to get bail-out ' ' detonator ' on plane to germany gm heading for record share sale most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened one-minute world news breaking down racial barriers ' do my birth parents think of me on my birthday ? '
afghan soviet-era helicopters fly again ' alien ' planet detected circling dying star riding the world 's fastest rollercoaster one-minute world news making music in political times hajj pilgrimage drawing to a close ireland ' to have substantial loan ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 67,343 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- ' change needed ' to tackle poverty british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:51 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:51 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' change needed ' to tackle poverty butetown in cardiff is one of the areas to receive communities first help a flagship programme to tackle poverty is unlikely to meet its objectives without significant change , a watchdog has said .
a review by the auditor general for wales said communities first must be a clearer priority for ministers and councils if it is to succeed .
around £ 214m has been spent in eight years on the scheme but jeremy colman said it was not monitored properly .
the assembly government said there was room for improvement .
communities first was launched in 2001 to provide funding to the most deprived areas in wales , such as parts of rhyl , merthyr tydfil and butetown in cardiff .
it aims to involve local people in deciding what is needed to improve their area and support them in making it happen .
since the programme 's launch in 2001 , local partnerships have been set up to coordinate a wide range of activities , such as health and well-being events , community safety promotions , youth projects , training courses and environmental clean ups , in the areas they represent .
the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils jeremy colman , auditor general for wales but , the report said , it was not until 2007 that the assembly government took steps to monitor whether these partnerships were being run as intended .
following reviews of the programme , it has improved the way it manages the different projects and the auditor general said that local communities have , generally , benefited from these partnerships and the activities they are responsible for .
however , mr colman said the assembly government could not demonstrate how far communities first is meeting its " very ambitious and challenging " objectives because it had not monitored the programme properly .
the report said to improve the way the programme is delivered , the assembly government should make it a " clearer priority " across its own departments .
it also recommended that the assembly government provide additional support to the community projects , while working closer with councils and other public bodies .
parts of rhyl are among the most deprived in wales mr colman said communities first had " delivered local benefits " .
" but eight years into the programme the assembly government is still not tracking the full extent to which the programme is tackling deprivation and improving living conditions for those in poverty , " he said .
" the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils , so they maximise their contribution to the programme .
it also needs to improve the priority given to communities first by its own departments . "
the assembly government said it would look at the findings of the report carefully .
a spokesman said : " communities first is a long term initiative to tackle the difficult and entrenched issues faced by the most deprived areas in wales .
" we have established nearly 160 partnerships that are helping to improve their communities through providing training , delivering youth projects or making their areas safer .
" however , we recognise that improvements have been necessary and the report acknowledges that we have made significant progress in key areas .
" for example , in the way we allocate funding , monitor and manage partnerships ' progress , and encourage them to focus more on what they need to achieve . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also five deprived areas share £ 2.5m 14 jan 09 -pipe- mid wales deprived resort town to lose fund 07 aug 08 -pipe- north east wales ' time to deliver ' on regeneration 30 jan 08 -pipe- wales wales ' most deprived areas named 09 jul 08 -pipe- wales related internet links communities first auditor general for wales welsh assembly government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' farmers ' ' badger cull disaster ' funeral of family after home fire most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' country profile : kenya tongue stud ' brain fatality risk ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened fidel castro delivers rare speech enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' adultery case woman attacks iran ' medics ' killed in afghanistan n zealand beating ' was a dance ' ice island breaks from greenland pirates quit captured sugar ship shot uk medical worker identified mother and daughter , 12 , stabbed pensioner tackles shop knifeman most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened on board the flight that bombed hiroshima film of foiled robbery released medics ' were not missionaries ' castro warning on effects of war atlantis lands for ' final time ' flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' one-minute world news an astronaut 's view of a spacewalk four baby bodies found in suitcases most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 41,200 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- ' change needed ' to tackle poverty accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:51 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:51 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' change needed ' to tackle poverty butetown in cardiff is one of the areas to receive communities first help a flagship programme to tackle poverty is unlikely to meet its objectives without significant change , a watchdog has said .
a review by the auditor general for wales said communities first must be a clearer priority for ministers and councils if it is to succeed .
around £ 214m has been spent in eight years on the scheme but jeremy colman said it was not monitored properly .
the assembly government said there was room for improvement .
communities first was launched in 2001 to provide funding to the most deprived areas in wales , such as parts of rhyl , merthyr tydfil and butetown in cardiff .
it aims to involve local people in deciding what is needed to improve their area and support them in making it happen .
since the programme 's launch in 2001 , local partnerships have been set up to coordinate a wide range of activities , such as health and well-being events , community safety promotions , youth projects , training courses and environmental clean ups , in the areas they represent .
the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils jeremy colman , auditor general for wales but , the report said , it was not until 2007 that the assembly government took steps to monitor whether these partnerships were being run as intended .
following reviews of the programme , it has improved the way it manages the different projects and the auditor general said that local communities have , generally , benefited from these partnerships and the activities they are responsible for .
however , mr colman said the assembly government could not demonstrate how far communities first is meeting its " very ambitious and challenging " objectives because it had not monitored the programme properly .
the report said to improve the way the programme is delivered , the assembly government should make it a " clearer priority " across its own departments .
it also recommended that the assembly government provide additional support to the community projects , while working closer with councils and other public bodies .
parts of rhyl are among the most deprived in wales mr colman said communities first had " delivered local benefits " .
" but eight years into the programme the assembly government is still not tracking the full extent to which the programme is tackling deprivation and improving living conditions for those in poverty , " he said .
" the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils , so they maximise their contribution to the programme .
it also needs to improve the priority given to communities first by its own departments . "
the assembly government said it would look at the findings of the report carefully .
a spokesman said : " communities first is a long term initiative to tackle the difficult and entrenched issues faced by the most deprived areas in wales .
" we have established nearly 160 partnerships that are helping to improve their communities through providing training , delivering youth projects or making their areas safer .
" however , we recognise that improvements have been necessary and the report acknowledges that we have made significant progress in key areas .
" for example , in the way we allocate funding , monitor and manage partnerships ' progress , and encourage them to focus more on what they need to achieve . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also five deprived areas share £ 2.5m 14 jan 09 -pipe- mid wales deprived resort town to lose fund 07 aug 08 -pipe- north east wales ' time to deliver ' on regeneration 30 jan 08 -pipe- wales wales ' most deprived areas named 09 jul 08 -pipe- wales related internet links communities first auditor general for wales welsh assembly government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories arrest after man dies tobogganing slate fraudsters to pay £ 250,000 prince laughs off wedding query most popular stories now shared read watched / listened railway brings new era for tibet topless tobogganing in germany no tax please , we 're greek first superman comic sold for $ 1m frog reveals secret of monogamy most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ex-us vice president cheney ill obama unveils new healthcare plan us freezer bodies woman convicted car bomb explodes at courthouse man in hiding betrayed by pet dog guilty plea in new york bomb plot tv man gave up dead lover 's name us ' closes in on google hackers ' first superman comic sold for $ 1m odeon confirms wonderland boycott most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened topless tobogganing in germany chinese police film drunk driver burma 's kachin army set to fight one-minute world news archery lesson for blindfolded prince israeli drone ' can reach iran ' israeli-born face deportation how british army is tackling ied threat fresh madeira landslide warning prince william proves a hit ' down under ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis war footing burma 's kachin minority prepares for civil war strike damage european airlines struggle to polish up their images madeira clean-up unceasing efforts eradicate flood damage most popular now most popular now -pipe- 20,771 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links science season comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- ' change needed ' to tackle poverty british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:51 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:51 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' change needed ' to tackle poverty butetown in cardiff is one of the areas to receive communities first help a flagship programme to tackle poverty is unlikely to meet its objectives without significant change , a watchdog has said .
a review by the auditor general for wales said communities first must be a clearer priority for ministers and councils if it is to succeed .
around £ 214m has been spent in eight years on the scheme but jeremy colman said it was not monitored properly .
the assembly government said there was room for improvement .
communities first was launched in 2001 to provide funding to the most deprived areas in wales , such as parts of rhyl , merthyr tydfil and butetown in cardiff .
it aims to involve local people in deciding what is needed to improve their area and support them in making it happen .
since the programme 's launch in 2001 , local partnerships have been set up to coordinate a wide range of activities , such as health and well-being events , community safety promotions , youth projects , training courses and environmental clean ups , in the areas they represent .
the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils jeremy colman , auditor general for wales but , the report said , it was not until 2007 that the assembly government took steps to monitor whether these partnerships were being run as intended .
following reviews of the programme , it has improved the way it manages the different projects and the auditor general said that local communities have , generally , benefited from these partnerships and the activities they are responsible for .
however , mr colman said the assembly government could not demonstrate how far communities first is meeting its " very ambitious and challenging " objectives because it had not monitored the programme properly .
the report said to improve the way the programme is delivered , the assembly government should make it a " clearer priority " across its own departments .
it also recommended that the assembly government provide additional support to the community projects , while working closer with councils and other public bodies .
parts of rhyl are among the most deprived in wales mr colman said communities first had " delivered local benefits " .
" but eight years into the programme the assembly government is still not tracking the full extent to which the programme is tackling deprivation and improving living conditions for those in poverty , " he said .
" the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils , so they maximise their contribution to the programme .
it also needs to improve the priority given to communities first by its own departments . "
the assembly government said it would look at the findings of the report carefully .
a spokesman said : " communities first is a long term initiative to tackle the difficult and entrenched issues faced by the most deprived areas in wales .
" we have established nearly 160 partnerships that are helping to improve their communities through providing training , delivering youth projects or making their areas safer .
" however , we recognise that improvements have been necessary and the report acknowledges that we have made significant progress in key areas .
" for example , in the way we allocate funding , monitor and manage partnerships ' progress , and encourage them to focus more on what they need to achieve . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also five deprived areas share £ 2.5m 14 jan 09 -pipe- mid wales deprived resort town to lose fund 07 aug 08 -pipe- north east wales ' time to deliver ' on regeneration 30 jan 08 -pipe- wales wales ' most deprived areas named 09 jul 08 -pipe- wales related internet links communities first auditor general for wales welsh assembly government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories admission over nhs ' underfunding ' farmers ' ' badger cull disaster ' funeral of family after home fire most popular stories now shared read watched / listened webscape most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened eta rebels call ' permanent truce ' undercover officer switches sides us mourns arizona shooting dead iran makes nuclear death arrests how giffords survived the shot virgin ' wo n't pay ' fees over snow pakistan bodyguard admits killing fury over doctor 's book on sex education for muslims flash floods hit queensland city police criticised for ' native ' pc most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened waters sweep away cars in australia one-minute world news arizona gunman to appear in court the battle to dominate global aviation shooting eyewitness ' told to get gun ' on board the airbus a380 ' gadget cars ' make their debut in las vegas snakes and crocodiles in australia 's floods clooney on his commitment to sudan australia evacuees flee flood threat most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 139,986 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- wales -pipe- ' change needed ' to tackle poverty british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version mobiles skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics education magazine business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service page last updated at 05:51 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 06:51 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version ' change needed ' to tackle poverty butetown in cardiff is one of the areas to receive communities first help a flagship programme to tackle poverty is unlikely to meet its objectives without significant change , a watchdog has said .
a review by the auditor general for wales said communities first must be a clearer priority for ministers and councils if it is to succeed .
around £ 214m has been spent in eight years on the scheme but jeremy colman said it was not monitored properly .
the assembly government said there was room for improvement .
communities first was launched in 2001 to provide funding to the most deprived areas in wales , such as parts of rhyl , merthyr tydfil and butetown in cardiff .
it aims to involve local people in deciding what is needed to improve their area and support them in making it happen .
since the programme 's launch in 2001 , local partnerships have been set up to coordinate a wide range of activities , such as health and well-being events , community safety promotions , youth projects , training courses and environmental clean ups , in the areas they represent .
the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils jeremy colman , auditor general for wales but , the report said , it was not until 2007 that the assembly government took steps to monitor whether these partnerships were being run as intended .
following reviews of the programme , it has improved the way it manages the different projects and the auditor general said that local communities have , generally , benefited from these partnerships and the activities they are responsible for .
however , mr colman said the assembly government could not demonstrate how far communities first is meeting its " very ambitious and challenging " objectives because it had not monitored the programme properly .
the report said to improve the way the programme is delivered , the assembly government should make it a " clearer priority " across its own departments .
it also recommended that the assembly government provide additional support to the community projects , while working closer with councils and other public bodies .
parts of rhyl are among the most deprived in wales mr colman said communities first had " delivered local benefits " .
" but eight years into the programme the assembly government is still not tracking the full extent to which the programme is tackling deprivation and improving living conditions for those in poverty , " he said .
" the assembly government needs to work much more closely with other public bodies , particularly councils , so they maximise their contribution to the programme .
it also needs to improve the priority given to communities first by its own departments . "
the assembly government said it would look at the findings of the report carefully .
a spokesman said : " communities first is a long term initiative to tackle the difficult and entrenched issues faced by the most deprived areas in wales .
" we have established nearly 160 partnerships that are helping to improve their communities through providing training , delivering youth projects or making their areas safer .
" however , we recognise that improvements have been necessary and the report acknowledges that we have made significant progress in key areas .
" for example , in the way we allocate funding , monitor and manage partnerships ' progress , and encourage them to focus more on what they need to achieve . "
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor welsh politics all the latest news from the senedd and westminster see also five deprived areas share £ 2.5m 14 jan 09 -pipe- mid wales deprived resort town to lose fund 07 aug 08 -pipe- north east wales ' time to deliver ' on regeneration 30 jan 08 -pipe- wales wales ' most deprived areas named 09 jul 08 -pipe- wales related internet links communities first auditor general for wales welsh assembly government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories jobs fear in companies house cuts cull ' to continue ' despite appeal murder probe as collapse man dies most popular stories now shared read watched / listened tea ' healthier ' drink than water einstein and newton ' had autism ' in video : bramham 2010 course kingsolver crowned orange winner bafta tv awards 2010 : the winners most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dna study unlocks jewish diaspora google accused of criminal intent boys deny younger sister 's rape iran dismisses new un sanctions afghan ' wedding blast ' kills 39 dutch election in tight finish fox pictured after twins attack is that woman pregnant or fat ?
top prize for swiss solar pioneer romanian stowaway on private jet most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened kevin costner 's oil spill plan new cctv footage of haiti quake one-minute world news world cup warning for sex tourists corden in spat with sir patrick snake found under van 's bonnet highlights from the glamour awards argentine opera house reopens final big brother series starts kingsolver crowned orange winner most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis your ideas 18 ways readers would have tackled the oil spill day in pictures most striking images from around the world from bbc sport > > mystery men the secretive world of n korean football most popular now most popular now -pipe- 28,671 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links world cup 2010 100 objects full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- greece 's ' phoney war ' on smoking british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages russian albanian serbian turkish ukrainian more page last updated at 06:41 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:41 uk greece 's ' phoney war ' on smoking please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the head of a crackdown against public smoking in greece , introduced earlier this month , has claimed people have already been encouraged to give up tobacco .
malcolm brabant reports .
see also greece introduces smoking ban -lrb- 01.57 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio monty python team caught on early home video wyclef on his presidential ambitions one-minute world news ' jerkin ' street dance sweeps the us police ' smash pensioner 's car ' editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:46 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:46 uk ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left at least 156 people dead .
quentin sommerville reports on the ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi .
see also china riot city ' under control ' -lrb- 02.03 -rrb- uighur women defy chinese police -lrb- 02.38 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio children rescued from the rubble rare footage of crystal cave one-minute world news new video of orphanage hit by quake haiti 's outdoor maternity ward editor 's choice a right royal day out ' down under ' woman rescued after week under rubble new video of orphanage hit by quake baby born amid haiti 's ruins thoughts on obama 's first year in office skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:46 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:46 uk ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left at least 156 people dead .
quentin sommerville reports on the ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi .
see also china riot city ' under control ' -lrb- 02.03 -rrb- uighur women defy chinese police -lrb- 02.38 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep police ' smash pensioner 's car ' cameron and zardari ' enhance partnership ' ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' ' poo-powered ' car hits the road editor 's choice improvements to the bbc news website skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi accessibility help skip to content skip to bbc.co.uk search low graphics help access keys help search term explore the bbc bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:46 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:46 uk ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left at least 156 people dead .
quentin sommerville reports on the ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi .
see also china riot city ' under control ' -lrb- 02.03 -rrb- uighur women defy chinese police -lrb- 02.38 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio china visit sparks obama mania praise for child migrants ' spirit man drives $ 1m bugatti into marsh the pain of a ' forgotten australian ' madoff auction raises $ 1m editor 's choice madoff belongings sold at auction the pain of being a ' forgotten australian ' german goalkeeper 's memorial service plane crashes into vip lounge man drives $ 1m bugatti into marsh skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin bbc links a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food bbc links h to l health history learning local & nations bbc links m to sc music news radio science & nature bbc links sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more to top site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:46 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:46 uk ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi please turn on javascript .
media requires javascript to play .
advertisement the situation in china 's riot-torn city of urumqi is now under control after the deployment of thousands of troops , local communist officials have said .
the party chief of urumqi , capital of the xinjiang region , vowed that all those found guilty of murder during the riots would be put to death .
the unrest between muslim uighurs and han chinese began on sunday and has left at least 156 people dead .
quentin sommerville reports on the ' uneasy calm ' in urumqi .
see also china riot city ' under control ' -lrb- 02.03 -rrb- uighur women defy chinese police -lrb- 02.38 -rrb- story tools bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend most popular video / audio hollywood deal after youtube post japanese man marries virtual bride father murdered his daughter for loving the wrong man kansas divided over ' green ambitions ' troublesome snowfalls across europe editor 's choice japanese man marries virtual bride young reporter quizzes kenya 's environment minister pretty or a peril ? : europe snow philippine volcano ' still a threat ' waste not : ways to help russia recycle skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links strictly democracy live merlin a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono accessibility links low graphics skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help access keys help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:50 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:50 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono mr yudhoyono has restored indonesia 's rice self-sufficiency susilo bambang yudhoyono became indonesia 's first directly-elected president in october 2004 .
his first year in office was marked by major earthquakes - including the one that caused the indian ocean tsunami which killed more than 130,000 people in aceh - an outbreak of polio , avian flu and more bombs in bali .
he courted unpopularity by cutting subsidies on fuel - allowing the price to rise - but was then able to raise the subsidies again when global prices fell .
a healthy pay rise for civil servants , a negotiated end to the long-running separatist conflict in aceh and avoidance of the worst effects of the global financial crisis helped ensure he ended his first term with a large groundswell of support .
mr yudhoyono has also overseen cash handouts to millions of indonesia 's poor , and restored the country 's rice self-sufficiency for the first time in two decades - ensuring price stability for the staple crop .
he is also credited with spearheading a crackdown by the independent corruption eradication commission , or kpk , that has seen several high-profile figures prosecuted , including a relative of mr yudhoyono .
east timor questions the man dubbed " the thinking general " was born in 1949 in east java .
the son of a retired army lieutenant , susilo bambang yudhoyono graduated from indonesia 's military academy in 1973 .
two years later indonesian security forces invaded east timor .
as he rose through the ranks , mr yudhoyono completed several tours of duty in the territory .
by the time of east timor 's violent transition to independence in 1999 , he had been promoted to chief of territorial affairs .
mr yudhoyono was a minister in his rival mrs megawati 's government as such he would have reported directly to gen wiranto , the former head of the armed forces who has now been indicted for war crimes by a special tribunal in east timor .
but there has never been any attempt to bring charges against mr yudhoyono .
his supporters say he was not part of the inner circle of military commanders accused of allowing the violence to spread .
honorary award in fact , susilo bambang yudhoyono never quite achieved the highest levels in the military to which he aspired .
his four-star general status was an honorary award given to him when he left the army to join the government of abdurrahman wahid in 2000 .
he started as minister for mines but was soon promoted to chief minister for security and political affairs .
a year later he found himself in conflict with his boss .
facing impeachment , president wahid asked mr yudhoyono to declare a state of emergency .
mr yudhoyono declined , and promptly lost his job .
in march 2004 , history repeated itself .
mr yudhoyono , reappointed as senior political and security minister under president megawati , stepped down after a very public spat with the president and her husband .
being forced from office under successive presidents seems to have enhanced mr yudhoyono 's reputation as a man of principle , willing to sacrifice his own ambitions for the values he believes in .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also indonesia leader 's in-law jailed 17 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia presidential race opens 02 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific democrats win indonesia election 09 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific anti-corruption chief is detained 04 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific country profile : indonesia 11 aug 09 -pipe- country profiles timeline : indonesia 21 aug 09 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links bbc news in indonesian related internet links indonesian government general election commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories anger over jailed china dissident fears grow for hmong in thailand death row clemency plea to china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened crowds flock to monkey ' wedding ' scientists ' decode ' memory making in pictures : us midwest snowstorms us general defends pregnancy ban military tracks santa 's journey most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ' bomb attack bid ' on us airliner eurostar ' ignored safety rules ' vatican admits pontiff vulnerable bin laden 's daughter ' is in iran ' us condemns taliban soldier video in pictures : us midwest snowstorms tsunami-hit thailand : five years on air strike in pakistan kills 10 hp camera ' ca n't see ' black faces japan to stop blossom forecasts most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened passengers describe flight 253 incident the moment the pope was knocked down one-minute world news stand-up comedy club opens in india taliban video ' shows us soldier ' the queen 's christmas message footage of pope attack woman in 2008 2009 : the year michael jackson died ' attempted terror attack ' on plane woman knocks pope down at mass most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis tsunami legacy how thais learned to cope with 2004 disaster justice denied ?
british lawyer acts to save condemned indian in pictures snowstorms bring chaos for millions in us midwest most popular now most popular now -pipe- 17,986 people are reading stories on the site right now .
skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles alerts news feeds podcasts search term : explore the bbc home popular links doctor who comedy extra eastenders a to f bbc iplayer cbbc cbeebies food h to l health & parenting history learning local & nations m to sc music news radio science & nature sp to w sport tv weather a whole lot more from the bbc back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmix the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:50 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:50 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono mr yudhoyono has restored indonesia 's rice self-sufficiency susilo bambang yudhoyono became indonesia 's first directly-elected president in october 2004 .
his first year in office was marked by major earthquakes - including the one that caused the indian ocean tsunami which killed more than 130,000 people in aceh - an outbreak of polio , avian flu and more bombs in bali .
he courted unpopularity by cutting subsidies on fuel - allowing the price to rise - but was then able to raise the subsidies again when global prices fell .
a healthy pay rise for civil servants , a negotiated end to the long-running separatist conflict in aceh and avoidance of the worst effects of the global financial crisis helped ensure he ended his first term with a large groundswell of support .
mr yudhoyono has also overseen cash handouts to millions of indonesia 's poor , and restored the country 's rice self-sufficiency for the first time in two decades - ensuring price stability for the staple crop .
he is also credited with spearheading a crackdown by the independent corruption eradication commission , or kpk , that has seen several high-profile figures prosecuted , including a relative of mr yudhoyono .
east timor questions the man dubbed " the thinking general " was born in 1949 in east java .
the son of a retired army lieutenant , susilo bambang yudhoyono graduated from indonesia 's military academy in 1973 .
two years later indonesian security forces invaded east timor .
as he rose through the ranks , mr yudhoyono completed several tours of duty in the territory .
by the time of east timor 's violent transition to independence in 1999 , he had been promoted to chief of territorial affairs .
mr yudhoyono was a minister in his rival mrs megawati 's government as such he would have reported directly to gen wiranto , the former head of the armed forces who has now been indicted for war crimes by a special tribunal in east timor .
but there has never been any attempt to bring charges against mr yudhoyono .
his supporters say he was not part of the inner circle of military commanders accused of allowing the violence to spread .
honorary award in fact , susilo bambang yudhoyono never quite achieved the highest levels in the military to which he aspired .
his four-star general status was an honorary award given to him when he left the army to join the government of abdurrahman wahid in 2000 .
he started as minister for mines but was soon promoted to chief minister for security and political affairs .
a year later he found himself in conflict with his boss .
facing impeachment , president wahid asked mr yudhoyono to declare a state of emergency .
mr yudhoyono declined , and promptly lost his job .
in march 2004 , history repeated itself .
mr yudhoyono , reappointed as senior political and security minister under president megawati , stepped down after a very public spat with the president and her husband .
being forced from office under successive presidents seems to have enhanced mr yudhoyono 's reputation as a man of principle , willing to sacrifice his own ambitions for the values he believes in .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also indonesia leader 's in-law jailed 17 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia presidential race opens 02 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific democrats win indonesia election 09 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific anti-corruption chief is detained 04 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia country profile 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles indonesia timeline 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links bbc news in indonesian related internet links indonesian government general election commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened nz judge orders ' odd ' name change nz couple to name child superman q & a : dormant accounts fussy eaters – what 's wrong with gm ?
most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened dead babies found in dutch attic boy named hitler to stay in care reykjavik 's mayor appears in drag romania ' anti-semitic ' coin row afghan girl to have nose rebuilt saudi blackberry service resumes pakistan floods ' hit 12m people ' mandela aide ' got campbell gems ' moscow under smog health warning mother faces deaths prosecution most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep ' a catastrophe , no overstatement ' president zardari on fighting terror ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' inside an indian jain faith temple monty python team caught in early home movie marlon king : ' i did not sexually assault a female ' one-minute world news crowds gather for tall ships race driving through russia 's wildfires most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 53,586 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:50 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:50 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono mr yudhoyono has restored indonesia 's rice self-sufficiency susilo bambang yudhoyono became indonesia 's first directly-elected president in october 2004 .
his first year in office was marked by major earthquakes - including the one that caused the indian ocean tsunami which killed more than 130,000 people in aceh - an outbreak of polio , avian flu and more bombs in bali .
he courted unpopularity by cutting subsidies on fuel - allowing the price to rise - but was then able to raise the subsidies again when global prices fell .
a healthy pay rise for civil servants , a negotiated end to the long-running separatist conflict in aceh and avoidance of the worst effects of the global financial crisis helped ensure he ended his first term with a large groundswell of support .
mr yudhoyono has also overseen cash handouts to millions of indonesia 's poor , and restored the country 's rice self-sufficiency for the first time in two decades - ensuring price stability for the staple crop .
he is also credited with spearheading a crackdown by the independent corruption eradication commission , or kpk , that has seen several high-profile figures prosecuted , including a relative of mr yudhoyono .
east timor questions the man dubbed " the thinking general " was born in 1949 in east java .
the son of a retired army lieutenant , susilo bambang yudhoyono graduated from indonesia 's military academy in 1973 .
two years later indonesian security forces invaded east timor .
as he rose through the ranks , mr yudhoyono completed several tours of duty in the territory .
by the time of east timor 's violent transition to independence in 1999 , he had been promoted to chief of territorial affairs .
mr yudhoyono was a minister in his rival mrs megawati 's government as such he would have reported directly to gen wiranto , the former head of the armed forces who has now been indicted for war crimes by a special tribunal in east timor .
but there has never been any attempt to bring charges against mr yudhoyono .
his supporters say he was not part of the inner circle of military commanders accused of allowing the violence to spread .
honorary award in fact , susilo bambang yudhoyono never quite achieved the highest levels in the military to which he aspired .
his four-star general status was an honorary award given to him when he left the army to join the government of abdurrahman wahid in 2000 .
he started as minister for mines but was soon promoted to chief minister for security and political affairs .
a year later he found himself in conflict with his boss .
facing impeachment , president wahid asked mr yudhoyono to declare a state of emergency .
mr yudhoyono declined , and promptly lost his job .
in march 2004 , history repeated itself .
mr yudhoyono , reappointed as senior political and security minister under president megawati , stepped down after a very public spat with the president and her husband .
being forced from office under successive presidents seems to have enhanced mr yudhoyono 's reputation as a man of principle , willing to sacrifice his own ambitions for the values he believes in .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also indonesia leader 's in-law jailed 17 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia presidential race opens 02 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific democrats win indonesia election 09 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific anti-corruption chief is detained 04 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia country profile 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles indonesia timeline 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links bbc news in indonesian related internet links indonesian government general election commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' inside castro 's revolutionary hideout most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened enola gay navigator has ' no regrets ' huge ice sheet breaks from greenland glacier shot uk medical worker identified iran ' lying ' about murder charges , says ashtiani foreign medical workers among 10 killed in afghanistan a glimpse of life inside castro 's revolutionary hideout woman shown her own rape on phone pakistan issues flooding ' red alert ' for sindh province muslims host ' anti-terror ' camp best man missing after lake swim most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened flesh-eating ' aliens ' from deep on board the flight that bombed hiroshima unnamed page president zardari on fighting terror ' the smoke is absolutely choking ' unnamed page monty python team caught in early home movie foreign medical workers among 10 killed inside castro 's mountain hideout ' government is dealing with crisis ' most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 57,229 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links top gear london 2012 full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links mobile version skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:50 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:50 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono mr yudhoyono has restored indonesia 's rice self-sufficiency susilo bambang yudhoyono became indonesia 's first directly-elected president in october 2004 .
his first year in office was marked by major earthquakes - including the one that caused the indian ocean tsunami which killed more than 130,000 people in aceh - an outbreak of polio , avian flu and more bombs in bali .
he courted unpopularity by cutting subsidies on fuel - allowing the price to rise - but was then able to raise the subsidies again when global prices fell .
a healthy pay rise for civil servants , a negotiated end to the long-running separatist conflict in aceh and avoidance of the worst effects of the global financial crisis helped ensure he ended his first term with a large groundswell of support .
mr yudhoyono has also overseen cash handouts to millions of indonesia 's poor , and restored the country 's rice self-sufficiency for the first time in two decades - ensuring price stability for the staple crop .
he is also credited with spearheading a crackdown by the independent corruption eradication commission , or kpk , that has seen several high-profile figures prosecuted , including a relative of mr yudhoyono .
east timor questions the man dubbed " the thinking general " was born in 1949 in east java .
the son of a retired army lieutenant , susilo bambang yudhoyono graduated from indonesia 's military academy in 1973 .
two years later indonesian security forces invaded east timor .
as he rose through the ranks , mr yudhoyono completed several tours of duty in the territory .
by the time of east timor 's violent transition to independence in 1999 , he had been promoted to chief of territorial affairs .
mr yudhoyono was a minister in his rival mrs megawati 's government as such he would have reported directly to gen wiranto , the former head of the armed forces who has now been indicted for war crimes by a special tribunal in east timor .
but there has never been any attempt to bring charges against mr yudhoyono .
his supporters say he was not part of the inner circle of military commanders accused of allowing the violence to spread .
honorary award in fact , susilo bambang yudhoyono never quite achieved the highest levels in the military to which he aspired .
his four-star general status was an honorary award given to him when he left the army to join the government of abdurrahman wahid in 2000 .
he started as minister for mines but was soon promoted to chief minister for security and political affairs .
a year later he found himself in conflict with his boss .
facing impeachment , president wahid asked mr yudhoyono to declare a state of emergency .
mr yudhoyono declined , and promptly lost his job .
in march 2004 , history repeated itself .
mr yudhoyono , reappointed as senior political and security minister under president megawati , stepped down after a very public spat with the president and her husband .
being forced from office under successive presidents seems to have enhanced mr yudhoyono 's reputation as a man of principle , willing to sacrifice his own ambitions for the values he believes in .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version print sponsor see also indonesia leader 's in-law jailed 17 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia presidential race opens 02 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific democrats win indonesia election 09 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific anti-corruption chief is detained 04 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia country profile 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles indonesia timeline 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links bbc news in indonesian related internet links indonesian government general election commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories australia in jakarta asylum talks hague calls for closer china ties ' killer mushroom ' found in china most popular stories now shared read watched / listened diamonds hint at ' earliest life ' most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened live : chile mine rescue joy as chile miners reach surface porn studios close over hiv scare the big picture : lightning strike pentagon warns on us gay ruling new nose for taliban victim aisha china elders in free speech plea in pictures : first chile miners rescued germans break silence over immigration china-brazil match ends in brawl most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened ninth rescued miner emerges one-minute world news second chile miner 's euphoria at surface 12th chile miner reaches surface first chile miner rescued after 69 days first rescuer reaches mine one-minute world news chile miners ' 69 days underground 69 days : the miners ' long wait serbian fans arrested after euro qualifier match most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis planning an exit attacks by afghan soldiers pose nato problems sanction evasion ?
how iran has been registering ships in the isle of man cultural pride taiwan 's efforts to revive indigenous languages most popular now most popular now -pipe- 90,371 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more … a to f cbbc cbeebies food h to le health history learning lo to z nations & local music science & nature popular links merlin strictly full a-z of bbc sites back to start of navigation site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmx the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
bbc news - profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono british broadcasting corporation home accessibility links skip to content skip to local navigation skip to bbc.co.uk navigation skip to bbc.co.uk search help accessibility help bbc news updated every minute of every day one-minute world news news front page africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia uk business health science & environment technology entertainment also in the news - video and audio - programmes have your say in pictures country profiles special reports related bbc sites sport weather on this day editors ' blog bbc world service languages chinese vietnamese indonesian burmese more page last updated at 06:50 gmt , thursday , 9 july 2009 07:50 uk e-mail this to a friend printable version profile : susilo bambang yudhoyono mr yudhoyono has restored indonesia 's rice self-sufficiency susilo bambang yudhoyono became indonesia 's first directly-elected president in october 2004 .
his first year in office was marked by major earthquakes - including the one that caused the indian ocean tsunami which killed more than 130,000 people in aceh - an outbreak of polio , avian flu and more bombs in bali .
he courted unpopularity by cutting subsidies on fuel - allowing the price to rise - but was then able to raise the subsidies again when global prices fell .
a healthy pay rise for civil servants , a negotiated end to the long-running separatist conflict in aceh and avoidance of the worst effects of the global financial crisis helped ensure he ended his first term with a large groundswell of support .
mr yudhoyono has also overseen cash handouts to millions of indonesia 's poor , and restored the country 's rice self-sufficiency for the first time in two decades - ensuring price stability for the staple crop .
he is also credited with spearheading a crackdown by the independent corruption eradication commission , or kpk , that has seen several high-profile figures prosecuted , including a relative of mr yudhoyono .
east timor questions the man dubbed " the thinking general " was born in 1949 in east java .
the son of a retired army lieutenant , susilo bambang yudhoyono graduated from indonesia 's military academy in 1973 .
two years later indonesian security forces invaded east timor .
as he rose through the ranks , mr yudhoyono completed several tours of duty in the territory .
by the time of east timor 's violent transition to independence in 1999 , he had been promoted to chief of territorial affairs .
mr yudhoyono was a minister in his rival mrs megawati 's government as such he would have reported directly to gen wiranto , the former head of the armed forces who has now been indicted for war crimes by a special tribunal in east timor .
but there has never been any attempt to bring charges against mr yudhoyono .
his supporters say he was not part of the inner circle of military commanders accused of allowing the violence to spread .
honorary award in fact , susilo bambang yudhoyono never quite achieved the highest levels in the military to which he aspired .
his four-star general status was an honorary award given to him when he left the army to join the government of abdurrahman wahid in 2000 .
he started as minister for mines but was soon promoted to chief minister for security and political affairs .
a year later he found himself in conflict with his boss .
facing impeachment , president wahid asked mr yudhoyono to declare a state of emergency .
mr yudhoyono declined , and promptly lost his job .
in march 2004 , history repeated itself .
mr yudhoyono , reappointed as senior political and security minister under president megawati , stepped down after a very public spat with the president and her husband .
being forced from office under successive presidents seems to have enhanced mr yudhoyono 's reputation as a man of principle , willing to sacrifice his own ambitions for the values he believes in .
bookmark with : delicious digg reddit facebook stumbleupon what are these ?
e-mail this to a friend printable version see also indonesia leader 's in-law jailed 17 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia presidential race opens 02 jun 09 -pipe- asia-pacific democrats win indonesia election 09 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific anti-corruption chief is detained 04 may 09 -pipe- asia-pacific indonesia country profile 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles indonesia timeline 10 mar 10 -pipe- country profiles related bbc links bbc news in indonesian related internet links indonesian government general election commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites most popular stories now shared read watched / listened most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened global spam levels suddenly fall furore over ' censored ' huck finn homeless man with radio voice given second chance renault warns of threat to assets china stealth plane ' years away ' day in pictures : 6 january 2011 hackers uncover secret ps3 keys starbucks unveils revamped logo ' bad management ' led to bp spill haiti warned over rape in camps most popular now , in detail shared read watched / listened homeless man 's radio voice is a hit air passengers thwart hijack attempt swedes ' want king to abdicate ' rail announcer 's ' sexy ' accent sketching courtroom dramas chemical plant fire in holland will this ship revolutionise the skies ?
mark wahlberg plays the fighter vw to manufacture cars in malaysia increased demand for land rovers most popular now , in detail features , views , analysis praying for revenge widowed governor in philippines seeks curse plastic fantastic the loyalty reward programme for facebook fans path to the presidency could sarah palin win the republican nomination ?
most popular now most popular now -pipe- 109,143 people are reading stories on the site right now . " ; skip to top products & services e-mail news mobiles widgets & alerts news feeds podcasts mobile search term : bbc.co.uk navigation news sport weather travel tv radio more cbbc cbeebies comedy food health history learning music science nature local northern ireland scotland wales full a-z of bbc sites site links news sources about bbc news bbc links about the bbc bbc help contact us accessibility help terms of use jobs privacy & cookies advertise with us © mmxi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites .
read more .
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- enabled .
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser , you will not be able to get the full visual experience .
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets -lrb- css -rrb- if you are able to do so .
<p>
